File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 207 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 207 of 284 ---

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 207/28421. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of whether and how the undertaking
engages, as part of its ongoing due diligence process, with value chain workers and their legitimate representatives,
or with credible proxies , about material actual and potential positive and/or negative impacts that do or are likely to
affect them, and whether and how perspectives of value chain workers are taken into account in the decision-making
processes of the undertaking.
22. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how the perspectives of value chain workers inform its decisions or
activities aimed at managing the actual and potential impacts on value chain workers. This shall include, where
relevant, an explanation of:
(a) whether engagement occurs with value chain workers or their legitimate representatives directly, or with
credible proxies that have insight into their situation;
(b) the stage(s) at which engagement occurs, the type of engagement, and the frequency of the engagement;
(c) the function and the most senior role within the undertaking that has operational responsibility for ensuring that
this engagement happens, and that the results inform the undertaking’s approach;
(d) where applicable, Global Framework Agreements or for agreements that the undertaking has with global union federations related to respect of human rights of workers in the value chain, including their right to bargain
collectively, and including an explanation of how the agreement enables the undertaking to gain insight into
those workers’ perspectives; and
(e) where applicable, how the undertaking assesses the effectiveness of its engagement with workers in the value chain, including, where relevant, any agreements or outcomes that result.
23. Where applicable, the undertaking shall disclose the steps it takes to gain insight into the perspectives of workers that
may be particularly vulnerable to impacts and/or marginalised (for example, women workers, migrant workers,
workers with disabilities).
24. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted a general process to
engage with workers in the value chain, it shall disclose this to be the case. It may disclose a timeframe in which it
aims to have such a process in place.
Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise
concerns
25. The undertaking shall describe the processes it has in place to provide for or cooperate in the remediation of negative
impacts on value chain workers that the undertaking is connected with, as well as channels available to value chain
workers to raise concerns and have them addressed.
26. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the formal means by which value
chain workers can make their concerns and needs known directly to the undertaking and/or through which the
undertaking supports the availability of such channels (for example, grievance mechanisms ) in the workplace of
value chain workers, how follow up is carried out with these workers regarding the issues raised, and the
effectiveness of these channels.
27. The undertaking shall describe:
(a) its general approach to and processes for providing or contributing to remedy where it has caused or contributed
to a material negative impact on value chain workers, including whether and how the undertaking assesses that
the remedy provided is effective;
(b) any specific channels it has in place for value chain workers to raise their concerns or needs directly with the
undertaking and have them addressed, including whether these are established by the undertaking itself and/or
whether they are third-party mechanisms;OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 208 of 284 ---