File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 163 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 167/2847. The objective of the Standard is also to enable users to understand the extent to which the undertaking aligns or
complies with international and European human rights instruments and conventions, including the International
Bill of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work and ILO fundamental conventions, the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities, the European
Convention of Human Rights, the revised European Social Charter, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the
European Union, the EU policy priorities as set out by the European Pillar of Social Rights, and Union legislation,
including the EU labour law acquis.
Interaction with other ESRS
8. This Standard shall be read in conjunction with ESRS 1 General principles and ESRS 2 General requirements.
9. This Standard shall be read in conjunction with ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain, ESRS S3 Affected communities and
ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users.
10. The reporting under this Standard shall be consistent, coherent and where relevant clearly linked with reporting on
the undertaking’s own workforce under ESRS S2, in order to ensure effective reporting.
Disclosure requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
11. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with the disclosures required by ESRS 2 on Strategy
(SBM). The resulting disclosures shall be presented alongside the disclosures required by ESRS 2, except for ESRS 2
SBM-3, for which the undertaking has an option to present the disclosures alongside the topical disclosure.
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
12. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-2, the undertaking shall disclose how the interests, views, and rights of people in its
own workforce, including respect for their human rights, inform its strategy and business model. The undertaking’s
own workforce is a key group of affected stakeholders.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their
interaction with strategy and business model
13. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose:
(a) whether and how actual and potential impacts on its own workforce as identified in ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of
the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: (i) originate from or are connected to the
undertaking’s strategy and business models, and (ii) inform and contribute to adapting the undertaking’s
strategy and business model; and
(b) the relationship between its material risks and opportunities arising from impacts and dependencies on own
workforce and its strategy and business model.
14. When fulfilling the requirements of paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose whether all people in its own
workforce who could be materially impacted by the undertaking are included in the scope of its disclosure under
ESRS 2. These material impacts shall include impacts that are connected with the undertaking’s own operations and
its value chain, including through its products or services, as well as through its business relationships. In addition,
the undertaking shall provide the following information:
(a) a brief description of the types of employees and non-employees in its own workforce subject to material impacts
by its operations, and specify whether they are employees , self- employed people, or people provided by third
party undertakings primarily engaged in employment activities;OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 168 of 284 ---