File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 242 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 241/284AR 8. With regard to paragraph 12, the risks could arise because of the undertaking’s dependency on consumers and/or
end-users where low likelihood but high impact events may trigger financial effects, for example, where a global
pandemic leads to severe impacts on certain consumers’ livelihoods resulting in major changes in patterns of
consumption.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users
AR 9. The description shall include the key information necessary to ensure a faithful representation of the policies in
relation to consumers and end-users, and therefore, the undertaking shall consider explanations of significant
changes to the policies adopted during the reporting year (for example, new expectations for business customers,
new or additional approaches to due diligence and remedy).
AR 10. The policy may take the form of a stand-alone policy regarding consumers and/or end-users or be included in a
broader document such as a code of ethics or a general sustainability policy that has already been disclosed by the
undertaking as part of another ESRS. In those cases, the undertaking shall provide an accurate cross-reference to
identify the aspects of the policy that satisfy the requirements of this Disclosure Requirement.
AR 11. In disclosing its alignment of its policies with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the
undertaking shall consider that the Guiding Principles refer to the International Bill of Human Rights, which consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the two Covenants that implement it, and may disclose
its alignment with these instruments.
AR 12. When disclosing how external facing policies are embedded, the undertaking may, for example, consider internal-
facing sales and distribution policies and alignment with other policies relevant to consumers and/or end-users.
The undertaking shall also consider its policies for safeguarding the veracity and usefulness of information
provided to potential and actual consumers and/or end-users, both before and after sale.
AR 13. The undertaking may provide an illustration of the types of communication of its policies to those individuals,
group of individuals or entities for whom they are relevant, either because they are expected to implement them (for example, the undertaking’s employees , contractors and suppliers), or because they have a direct interest in
their implementation (for example, own workers, investors). It may disclose communication tools and channels
(for example, flyers, newsletters, dedicated websites, social media, face to face interactions, workers’
representatives), aimed at ensuring that the policy is accessible and that different audiences understand its
implications. The undertaking may also explain how it identifies and removes potential barriers for dissemination,
such as through translation into relevant languages or the use of graphic depictions.
Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts
AR 14. Credible proxies who have knowledge of the interests, experiences or perspectives of consumers and end-users
could include national consumer protection bodies for some consumers.
AR 15. When describing which function or role has operational responsibility for such engagement and/or ultimate
accountability, the undertaking may disclose whether this is a dedicated role or function or part of a broader role
or function, and whether any capacity building activities have been offered to support the staff to undertake
engagement. If it cannot identify such a position or function, it may state that this is the case. This disclosure could also be fulfilled by making reference to information disclosed according to ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the
administrative, management and supervisory bodies.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 242 of 284 ---