File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 62 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

a statutor y auditor , other than the one(s) carrying out the statutor y audit of the financia l state ments, to express an
assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting. Further more, if they allow independent assurance services provid ers
to carry out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, Member States should also allow a statut ory auditor , other
than the one(s) carrying out the statut ory audit of the financial statements, to express an assurance opinion on
sustainability repor ting.
Member States should set out requirements that ensure the quality of the assurance of sustainability repor ting carried
out by independent assurance services providers and consistent outcomes in the assurance of sustainability
repor ting. Theref ore, all independent assurance services providers should be subject to requirements that are
equivalent to the requirements set out in Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (35)
as regar ds the assurance of sustainability repor ting, while being adap ted to the charact eristics of independent
assurance services providers which do not carry out statut ory audits. In particular , Member State s should set out
equivalent requirements as regards training and examination, continuing education, quality assurance system s,
professiona l ethics, independence, objectivity , conf identiality and profess ional secrecy , appointment and dismissal,
the organisation of the work of independent assurance services provid ers, investig ations and sanctions, and the
repor ting of irregular ities. This would also guarant ee a level playing field among all persons and firms allowed by
Member States to provid e an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, including statutor y auditors. If an
under taking seeks the opinion of an accredit ed independent assurance services provid er other than the statutor y
auditor on its sustainability repor ting, it should not in addition need to request an assurance opinion on its
sustainability repor ting from the statutor y auditor .
Independent assurance services provid ers that have already been accredited by a Member State for the assurance of
sustainability repor ting should continue to be allowe d to do so. Like wise, Member States should ensure that
independent assurance services providers that, by the date of application of the new requirements on training and
examination, are undergoing their accreditation process are not subject to those new accreditation requirements,
provid ed they compl ete that process within two years of the date of application of those new requirements. Member
State s should, however , ensure that all the independent assurance services providers accredite d by a Member State for
the assurance of sustainability repor ting within two years of the date of application of the new accreditation
requirements, acquire the necessar y knowledg e in sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability
repor ting through continued profes sional education.
(62) In order to foste r the free move ment of services, Member State s should allow independent assurance services
provid ers established in a diffe rent Member State to carry out the assurance of sustainability repor ting in their
territory . This would also favour opening up the assurance mark et even when not all Member State s allow for the
accreditation of independent assurance services provid ers in their territory. Where independent assurance services
provid ers carry out the assurance of sustainability repor ting in the territory of a host Member State, that host
Member State should be able to decide to super vise independent assurance services providers, given the possibility
to leverage on the implement ed framew ork for the super vision of auditors carrying out the assurance of
sustainability repor ting.
(63) Member States should ensure that when an under taking is required by Union law to have elements of its
sustainability repor ting verified by an accredit ed independent third party, the repor t of the accredited independent
third party should be made available either as an annex to the manage ment repor t or by any other publicly
accessible means. Such making available of that repor t should not pre-emp t the outcome of the assurance opinion
of whic h the third-par ty verification should remain independent. It should not entail any duplication of work
between the auditor or the independent assurance services provider that expresses the assurance opinion and the
accredite d independent third party.