File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 212 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 212/284AR 14. When disclosing the alignment of its policies with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the
undertaking shall consider that the Guiding Principles refer to the International Bill of Rights, which consist of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the two Covenants that implement it, as well as the International
Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work and the core conventions that
underpin it, and may disclose its alignment with these instruments.
AR 15. When disclosing how external-facing policies are embedded, the undertaking may, for example, consider internal policies of responsible sourcing, and alignment with other policies relevant to value chain workers, for example,
regarding forced labour . With regard to supplier codes of conduct that the undertaking may have, the summary
shall indicate whether they include provisions addressing the safety of workers, precarious work (for example, the
use of workers on short-term or limited hours contracts, workers employed via third parties, sub-contracting to
third parties or use of informal workers), human trafficking, the use of forced labour or child labour , and whether
such provisions are fully in line with applicable ILO standards.
AR 16. The undertaking may provide an illustration of the types of communication of its policies to those individuals,
group of individuals or entities for whom they are relevant, either because they are expected to implement them
(for example, the undertaking’s employees , contractors and suppliers), or because they have a direct interest in
their implementation (for example, own workers, investors). It may disclose communication tools and channels
(for example, flyers, newsletters, dedicated websites, social media, face to face interactions, workers’
representatives), aimed at ensuring that the policy is accessible and that different audiences understand its
implications. The undertaking may also explain how it identifies and removes potential barriers for dissemination,
such as through translation into relevant languages or the use of graphic depictions.
Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts
AR 17. When describing which function or role has operational responsibility for such engagement and/or ultimate
accountability, the undertaking may disclose whether this is a dedicated role or function or part of a broader role
or function, and whether any capacity building activities have been offered to support the staff to undertake
engagement. If it cannot identify such a position or function, it may state that this is the case. This disclosure
could also be fulfilled by making reference to information disclosed according to ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the
administrative, management and supervisory bodies.
AR 18. When preparing the disclosures described in paragraph 22 b) and c), the following illustrations may be considered:
(a) examples of stages at which engagement occurs are i) determining the approach to mitigation and ii) evaluation the effectiveness of mitigation;
(b) for type of engagement, these could be participation, consultation and/or information;
(c) for the frequency of the engagement, information may be provided on whether engagement occurs on a
regular basis, at certain points in a project or business process, for example, when a new harvest season begins
or a new production line is opened, as well as whether it occurs in response to legal requirements and/or in
response to stakeholder requests and whether the result of the engagement is being integrated into the
undertaking's decision- making processes; and
(d) for the role with operational responsibility, whether the undertaking requires relevant staff to have certain
skills, or whether it provides training or capacity building to relevant staff to undertake engagement.
AR 19. Global Framework Agreements (GFA) serve to establish an ongoing relationship between a multinational
enterprise and a Global Union Federation to ensure that the undertaking adheres to the same standards in every
country in which it operates.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 213 of 284 ---