File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 270 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 270 of 284 ---

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 270/284Indirect impact drivers operate diffusely by altering and influencing direct
drivers (by affecting their level, direction or rate) as well as other indirect
drivers. Interactions between indirect and direct drivers create different
chains of relationship, attribution, and impacts, which may vary according
to type, intensity, duration, and distance. These relationships can also lead to different types of spill-over effects. Global indirect drivers include economic,
demographic, governance, technological and cultural ones. Special attention
is given, among indirect drivers, to the role of institutions (both formal and
informal) and impacts of the patterns of production, supply and
consumption on nature, nature’s contributions to people and good quality of life.
Impact materiality A sustainability matter is material from an impact perspective when it pertains to the undertaking’s material actual or potential, positive or
negative impacts on people or the environment over the short-, medium-
and long-term. A material sustainability matter from an impact perspective includes impacts connected with the undertaking’s own operations and
upstream and downstream value chain, including through its products and
services, as well as through its business relationships.
Incident A legal action or complaint registered with the undertaking or competent authorities through a formal process, or an instance of non-compliance
identified by the undertaking through established procedures. Established
procedures to identify instances of non-compliance can include
management system audits, formal monitoring programs, or grievance
mechanisms.
Incineration The controlled burning of waste at high temperature with or without energy
recovery.
Independent board member Board members that exercise independent judgment free from any external influence or conflicts of interest. Independence generally means the exercise
of objective, unfettered judgement. When used as the measure by which to
judge the appearance of independence, or to categorise a non-executive
member of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies or
their committees as independent, it means the absence of an interest, position, association or relationship which, when judged from the
perspective of a reasonable and informed third party, is likely to influence
unduly or cause bias in decision-making.
Indigenous peoples There is no single definition for indigenous peoples agreed on at the
international level. In practice, there is convergence among international
agencies on what groups can be considered indigenous peoples and should
enjoy special protection as such. An important criteria for defining
indigenous people is related to their connection to a traditional area, as
defined in ILO Convention No. 169, Article 1, which states that the
convention applies to: “(a) tribal peoples in independent countries whose social,
cultural and economic conditions distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is regulated wholly or partially by their own
customs or traditions or by special laws or regulations; (b) peoples in independent
countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their descent from the
populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which the
country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonisation or the establishment of
present state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain some or
all of their own social, economic, cultural and political institutions”. ILO
Convention 169 also states in Article 1(2) that: “[s]elf-identification as
indigenous or tribal shall be regarded as a fundamental criterion for determining the groups to which the provisions of this Convention apply”.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 271 of 284 ---