File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 46 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 47/28432. The main aspects and steps of due diligence referred to under ESRS 1 chapter 4 Due diligence are related to a number
of cross-cutting and topical Disclosure Requirements under the ESRS. The undertaking shall provide a mapping that
explains how and where its application of the main aspects and steps of the due diligence process are reflected in its
sustainability statement, to allow a depiction of the actual practices of the undertaking with regard to due
diligence (15).
33. This disclosure requirement does not mandate any specific behavioural requirements with regard to due diligence
actions and does not extend or modify the role of administrative, management and supervisory bodies as
mandated by other legislation or regulation.
Disclosure Requirement GOV–5 - Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting
34. The undertaking shall disclose the main features of its risk management and internal control system in
relation to the sustainability reporting process.
35. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the undertaking’s risk management
and internal control processes in relation to sustainability reporting.
36. The undertaking shall disclose the following information:
(a) the scope, main features and components of the risk management and internal control processes and systems in
relation to sustainability reporting;
(b) the risk assessment approach followed, including the risk prioritisation methodology;
(c) the main risks identified and their mitigation strategies including related controls;
(d) a description of how the undertaking integrates the findings of its risk assessment and internal controls as regards
the sustainability reporting process into relevant internal functions and processes; and
(e) a description of the periodic reporting of the findings referred to in point (d) to the administrative, management
and supervisory bodies.
3. Strategy
37. This chapter sets disclosure requirements that enable an understanding of:
(a) the elements of the undertaking’s strategy that relate to or affect sustainability matters, its business model and
its value chain;
(b) how the interests and views of the undertaking’s stakeholders are taken into account by the undertaking’s
strategy and business model; and
(c) the outcome of the undertaking’s assessment of material impacts, risks and opportunities, including how they
inform its strategy and business model.
Disclosure Requirement SBM-1 – Strategy, business model and value chain
38. The undertaking shall disclose the elements of its strategy that relate to or impact sustainability matters, its
business model and its value chain.
39. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to describe the key elements of the undertaking’s general strategy that
relate to or affect sustainability matters, and the key elements of the undertaking’s business model and value chain,
in order to provide an understanding of its exposure to impacts, risks and opportunities and where they originate.
(15)This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is
derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #10 in Table III of Annex I of
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack of due
diligence”).OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 48 of 284 ---