File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 85 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3. Where applicable, the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall contain information about the
under taking’s own operations and about its value chain, including its products and services, its business relationships
and its supply chain.
For the first three years of the application of the measures to be adopt ed by the Member States in accordance with
Article 5(2) of Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European Parliament and of the Council (**), and in the event that
not all the necessar y information regarding its value chain is available, the under taking shall explain the efforts made
to obtain the necessar y information about its value chain, the reasons why not all of the necessar y information could
be obtained, and its plans to obtain the necessar y information in the future.
Where applicable, the information refer red to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also contain references to, and additional
explanations of, the other information included in the management repor t in accordance with Article 19, and the
amounts repor ted in the annual financia l statements.
Member States may allow information relating to impending developments or matte rs in the course of negotiation to
be omitted in exce ptional cases where, in the duly justified opinion of the members of the administrative,
manage ment and super visor y bodies, acting within the compet ences assigned to them by national law and having
collective responsibility for that opinion, the disclosure of such information would be seriously prejudicial to the
commercial position of the under taking, provided that such omission does not prevent a fair and balanced
understanding of the under taking’s development, performance and position, and the imp act of its activity .
4. Under takings shall repor t the information refer red to in paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Article in accordance with the
sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to Article 29b.
5. The management of the under taking shall inform the work ers’ representatives at the appropr iate level and
discuss with them the relevant information and the means of obtaining and verifying sustainability information. The
workers’ representatives’ opinion shall be communicat ed, where applicable, to the relevant administrative,
manage ment or super visor y bodies.
6. By way of derog ation from paragraphs 2 to 4 of this Article, and without prejudice to paragraphs 9 and 10 of
this Article, small and medium-sized under takings referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, small and non-com plex
institutions defined in point (145) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, capti ve insurance under takings
defined in point (2) of Article 13 of Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (***) and
capti ve reinsurance under takings defined in point (5) of Article 13 of that Directive may limit their sustainability
repor ting to the follo wing information:
(a) a brief descr iption of the under taking’s business model and strateg y;
(b) a descr iption of the under taking’s policies in relation to sustainability matte rs;
(c) the principal actual or poten tial adverse impacts of the under taking on sustainability matte rs, and any actions
taken to identify , monitor , prevent, mitig ate or remediate such actual or poten tial adverse impacts;
(d) the principal risks to the under taking relat ed to sustainability matt ers and how the under taking manage s those
risks;
(e) key indicators necessar y for the disclosures refer red to in points (a) to (d).
Small and medium-sized under takings, small and non-complex institutions and capti ve insurance and reinsurance
under takings that rely on the derogation referred to in the first subparagraph shall repor t in accordance with the
sustainability repor ting standards for small and medium-sized under takings refer red to in Article 29c.
7. For financial years starting before 1 Januar y 2028 , by way of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Article, small