File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 112 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 113/284Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material
pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities
11. The undertaking shall describe the process to identify material impacts, risks and opportunities and shall provide
information on:
(a) whether the undertaking has screened its site locations and business activities in order to identify its actual and
potential pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities in its own operations and upstream and
downstream value chain, and if so, the methodologies, assumptions and tools used in the screening;
(b) whether and how the undertaking has conducted consultations, in particular with affected communities.
Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution
12. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to
pollution prevention and control.
13. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which the undertaking
has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or remediation of material pollution-
related impacts, risks and opportunities.
14. The disclosure required by paragraph 12 shall contain the information on the policies the undertaking has in place to
manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to pollution in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies
adopted to manage material sustainability matters.
15. The undertaking shall indicate, with regard to its own operations and its upstream and donwstream value chain,
whether and how its policies address the following areas where material:
(a) mitigating negative impacts related to pollution of air, water and soil including prevention and control;
(b) substituting and minimising the use of substances of concern, and phasing out substances of very high concern,
in particular for non-essential societal use and in consumer products; and
(c) avoiding incidents and emergency situations, and if and when they occur, controlling and limiting their impact
on people and the environment.
Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution
16. The undertaking shall disclose its pollution-related actions and the resources allocated to their implementation.
17. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the key actions taken and planned to
achieve the pollution-related policy objectives and targets.
18. The description of the pollution-related action plans and resources shall contain the information prescribed in ESRS
2 MDR-A Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters.
19. In addition to ESRS 2 MDR-A, the undertaking may specify to which layer in the following mitigation hierarchy an action and resources can be allocated:
(a) avoid pollution including any phase out of materials or compounds that have a negative impact (prevention of
pollution at source);
(b) reduce pollution, including: any phase-out of materials or compounds; meeting enforcement requirements such
as Best Available Techniques (BAT) requirements; or meeting the Do No Significant Harm criteria for
pollution prevention and control according to the EU Taxonomy Regulation and its Delegated Acts
(minimisation of pollution); andOJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 114 of 284 ---