File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 23 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third subparagraph of Article 23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC. Such
exem ption should not apply to large under takings whose secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulated mark et in
the Union for reasons of investor prote ction, in order to ensure great er transparency as regards such under takings.
(26) Article 23 of Directive 2013/34/EU exem pts parent under takings from the oblig ation to prepare consolidat ed
financial statements and a consolidated management repor t where parent under takings are subsidiar y under takings
of another parent under taking that compl ies with that obligation. It should be specifi ed, however , that the
exem ption regime for consolidated financia l statements and consolidated management repor ts operat es
independently from the exem ption regime for consolidated sustainability repor ting. An under taking can theref ore
be exem pted from consolidated financial repor ting requirements but not from consolidated sustainability repor ting
requirements where its ultimat e parent under taking prepares consolidated financial state ments and consolidat ed
manage ment repor ts in accordance with Union law, or in accordance with equivalent requirements if the
under taking is established in a third countr y, but does not carry out consolidated sustainability repor ting in
accordance with Union law, or in accordance with equivalent requirements if the under taking is established in a
third countr y. It is necessar y that parent under takings repor ting at group level provide an adequate understanding
of the risks for, and impacts of, their subsidiar y under takings, including information on their due diligence
processes where appropr iate. There might be cases where the differ ences between the situation of the group and
that of its individual subsidiar y under takings, or between the situation of individual subsidiar y under takings in
differ ent territori es are particularly significant and would, in the absence of additional information about the
individual subsidiar y under taking concer ned, cause the user of the information to reach a substantially differ ent
conclusion about the risks for, or impacts of, the subsidiar y under taking.
(27) Credit institutions and insurance under takings play a key role in the transition towards a fully sustainable and
inclusive economic and financial system in line with the Green Deal. They can have signif icant positive and nega tive
imp acts via their lending, investment and under writing activities. Credit institutions and insurance under takings
other than those that are required to compl y with Directive 2013/34/EU, including cooperatives and mutual
under takings, should theref ore be subject to sustainability repor ting requirements, provid ed that they meet certain
size criteria. Users of sustainability information would thus be enabled to assess both the impacts of such credit
institutions and insurance under takings on society and the environment and the risks arising from sustainability
matte rs that such credit institutions and insurance under takings could face. Directive 2013/34/EU provi des for
three possible criteria to determine whether an under taking is to be considered a ‘large under taking’, namely the
balance sheet total, net turnover and the average number of emplo yees during the financial year .
The criterion of net turnover needs to be adap ted for credit institutions and for insurance under takings by referring
to the definition of net turnover in Council Directives 86/635/EEC (19)and 91/674/EEC (20)inste ad of the general
definit ion laid down in Directive 2013/34/EU. To ensure coherence with the repor ting requirements of Directive
86/635/EEC, Member State s should be able to choose not to apply sustainability repor ting requirements to credit
institutions listed in Article 2(5) of Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (21).
(28) The list of sustainability matters on whic h under takings are required to repor t should be as consistent as possible
with the definition of the term ‘sustainability factors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, and should prevent
a mismatch between information required by data users and information to be repor ted by under takings. That list
should also correspond to the needs and expectations of users and under takings, who often use the term s