File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 19 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 17/28492. When assessing the possible outcomes, the undertaking shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances, including
information about low-probability and high-impact outcomes, which, when aggregated, could become material. For
example, the undertaking might be exposed to several impacts or risks, each of which could cause the same type of
disruption, such as disruptions to the undertaking’s supply chain. Information about an individual source of risk
might not be material if disruption from that source is highly unlikely to occur. However, information about the aggregate risk of supply chain disruption from all sources might be material (see ESRS 2 BP-2).
7.3 Updating disclosures about events after the end of the reporting period
93. In some cases, the undertaking may receive information after the reporting period but before the management report
is approved for issuance. If such information provides evidence or insights about conditions existing at period end,
the undertaking shall, where appropriate, update estimates and sustainability disclosures, in the light of the new
information.
94. When such information provides evidence or insights about material transactions, other events and conditions that
arise after the end of the reporting period, the undertaking shall, where appropriate, provide narrative information
indicating the existence, nature and potential consequences of these post-year end events.
7.4 Changes in preparation or presentation of sustainability information
95. The definition and calculation of metrics, including metrics used to set targets and monitor progress towards them,
shall be consistent over time. The undertaking shall provide restated comparative figures, unless it is impracticable
to do so (see ESRS 2 BP-2), when it has:
(a) redefined or replaced a metric or target;
(b) identified new information in relation to the estimated figures disclosed in the preceding period and the new
information provides evidence of circumstances that existed in that period.
7.5 Reporting errors in prior periods
96. The undertaking shall correct material prior period errors by restating the comparative amounts for the prior
period(s) disclosed, unless it is impracticable to do so. This requirement does not extend to reporting periods before
the first year of application of ESRS by the undertaking.
97. Prior period errors are omissions from, and misstatements in, the undertaking’s sustainability statement for one or
more prior periods. Such errors arise from a failure to use, or misuse of, reliable information that:
(a) was available when the management report that includes the sustainability statement for those periods was
authorised for issuance; and
(b) could reasonably be expected to have been obtained and considered in the preparation of sustainability
disclosures included in these reports.
98. Such errors include: the effects of mathematical mistakes, mistakes in applying the definitions for metrics or targets,
oversights or misinterpretations of facts, and fraud.
99. Potential errors in the current period discovered in that period are corrected before the management report is
authorised for issuance. However, material errors are sometimes only discovered in a subsequent period.
100. When it is impracticable to determine the effect of an error on all prior periods presented, the undertaking shall
restate the comparative information to correct the error from the earliest date practicable. When correcting
disclosures for a prior period, the undertaking shall not use hindsight either in making assumptions about what the
management’s intentions would have been in a prior period or in estimating the amounts disclosed in a prior
period. This requirement applies to correction of both backward-looking and forward- looking disclosures.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 18 of 284 ---