File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 191 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 191 of 284 ---

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 191/284undertaking’s own workforce and reported under the scope of ESRS S2) include: workers for a supplier
contracted by the undertaking who work on the supplier’s premises using the supplier’s work methods; workers
for a ‘downstream’ entity which purchases goods or services from the undertaking; and workers of an equipment
supplier to the undertaking who, at one or more of the undertaking’s workplaces, perform regular maintenance on the supplier’s equipment (for example, photocopier) as stipulated in the contract between the equipment
supplier and the undertaking.
AR 63. If the undertaking cannot report exact figures, it shall use estimates according to the provisions in ESRS 1 to
disclose the number of people in its own workforce who are not employees to the nearest ten or, where the
number of people in its own workforce who are not employees is greater than 1 000, to the nearest 100, and
explain this. In addition, it shall clearly identify the information that derives from actual data and estimates.
AR 64. Disclosing the number of people in the undertaking’s own workforce who are not employees at the end of the
reporting period provides information for that point in time without capturing fluctuations during the reporting period. Disclosing this number as an average across the reporting period considers fluctuations during the
reporting period and can provide more insightful and relevant information for users.
AR 65. The information disclosed by the undertaking allows users to understand how the number of non-employees in
the undertaking’s own workforce varies during the reporting period or compared to the previous reporting
period (i.e., whether the numbers have increased or decreased). The undertaking may also disclose the reasons
for the fluctuations. For example, an increase in the number of non-employees during the reporting period could be due to a seasonal event. Conversely, a decrease in the number of non-employees compared to the
previous reporting period could be due to the completion of a temporary project. If the undertaking discloses
fluctuations, it shall also explain the criteria used to determine which fluctuations it discloses. If there are no
significant fluctuations in the number of non-employees during the reporting period or between the current and
previous reporting period, the undertaking may disclose this information.
Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue
Collective bargaining coverage
AR 66. The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements is calculated using the following
formula:
AR 67. The employees in the undertaking’s own workforce covered by collective bargaining agreements are those
individuals to whom the undertaking is obliged to apply the agreement. This means that if none of the
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the percentage reported is zero. An employee in the
undertaking’s own workforce covered by more than one collective bargaining agreement only needs to be
counted once.
AR 68. This requirement is not aimed at obtaining the percentage of employees represented by a works council or
belonging to trade unions, which can be different. The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining
agreements can be higher than the percentage of unionised employees when the collective bargaining agreements
apply to both union and non-union members. Alternatively, the percentage of employees covered by collective
bargaining agreements can be lower than the percentage of unionised employees. This may be the case when
there are no collective bargaining agreements available or when the collective bargaining agreements do not
cover all unionised employees.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 192 of 284 ---