File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 421 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8.2.  Computer programming, consultancy and related activities  
Description of the activity  
Providing expertise in the field of information technologies: writing, modifying, testing and supporting software;
planning and designing computer systems that integrate computer hardware, software and communication tech ­
nologies; on-site management and operation of clients’ computer systems or data processing facilities; and other
professional and technical computer-related activities.  
The economic activities in this category could be associated with NACE code J62 in accordance with the statistical
classification of economic activities established by Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006.  
Technical screening criteria  
Substantial contribution to climate change adaptation  
1. The economic activity has implemented physical and non-physical solutions (‘adaptation solutions’) that
substantially reduce the most important physical climate risks that are material to that activity.
2. The physical climate risks that are material to the activity have been identified from those listed in
Appendix A to this Annex by performing a robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment with the
following steps:
(a) screening of the activity to identify which physical climate risks from the list in Appendix A to this Annex
may affect the performance of the economic activity during its expected lifetime;
(b) where the activity is assessed to be at risk from one or more of the physical climate risks listed in Appendix A
to this Annex, a climate risk and vulnerability assessment to assess the materiality of the physical climate risks
on the economic activity;
(c) an assessment of adaptation solutions that can reduce the identified physical climate risk.
The climate risk and vulnerability assessment is proportionate to the scale of the activity and its expected lifespan,
such that:
(a) for activities with an expected lifespan of less than 10 years, the assessment is performed, at least by using
climate projections at the smallest appropriate scale;
(b) for all other activities, the assessment is performed using the highest available resolution, state-of-the-art
climate projections across the existing range of future scenarios (  626  ) consistent with the expected lifetime 
of the activity, including, at least, 10 to 30 year climate projections scenarios for major investments.
3. The climate projections and assessment of impacts are based on best practice and available guidance and
take into account the state-of-the-art science for vulnerability and risk analysis and related methodologies in line
with the most recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports (  627  ), scientific peer-reviewed 
publications and open source (  628  ) or paying models. 
4. The adaptation solutions implemented:
(a) do not adversely affect the adaptation efforts or the level of resilience to physical climate risks of other people,
of nature, of cultural heritage, of assets and of other economic activities;
(b) favour nature-based solutions (  629  ) or rely on blue or green infrastructure (  630  ) to the extent possible;  
_____________
( 626  ) Future scenarios include Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change representative concentration pathways RCP2.6, RCP4.5, 
RCP6.0 and RCP8.5.
( 627  ) Assessments Reports on Climate Change: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability, published periodically by the Intergovernmental  
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the United Nations body for assessing the science related to climate change produces,
https://www.ipcc.ch/reports/.
( 628  ) Such as Copernicus services managed by the European Commission. 
( 629  ) Nature-based solutions are defined as ‘solutions that are inspired and supported by nature, which are cost-effective, simulta n­
eously provide environmental, social and economic benefits and help build resilience. Such solutions bring more, and more
diverse, nature and natural features and processes into cities, landscapes and seascapes, through locally adapted, resource-eff icient
and systemic interventions’. Therefore, nature-based solutions benefit biodiversity and support the delivery of a range of
ecosystem services (version of 4.6.2021: https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/research-area/environment/nature-
based-solutions_en/).