File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 11 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(13) The Commission repor t of 21 Apr il 2021 on the review clauses in Directives 2013/34/EU, 2014/95/EU,
and 2013/50/EU and its accompan ying fitness check on the EU framewor k for public repor ting by companies
(‘Commission repor t on the review clauses and its accompan ying fitness check’) identified problems as to the
effectiveness of Directive 2014/95/EU. There is signif icant evidence that many under takings do not disclose
mater ial information on all major sustainability-related topics, including climate -related information such as all
GHG emissions, and factors that affect biodiversity . The repor t also identif ied the limited compar ability and
reliability of sustainability information as signif icant problems. Additionally , man y under takings from which users
need sustainability information are not oblig ed to repor t such information. According ly, there is a clear need for a
robust and affordable repor ting framework that is accompanied by effective auditing practices to ensure the
reliability of data and avoid greenwashing and double counting.
(14) In the absence of policy action, the gap between users’ information needs and the sustainability information
provid ed by under takings is expect ed to grow . That gap has signif icant nega tive consequences. Invest ors are unable
to take sufficient account of sustainability-relate d risks and oppor tunities in their investment decisions. The
aggregation of multiple investment decisions that do not take adequate account of sustainability-related risks has
the poten tial to creat e system ic risks that threaten financial stability . The European Central Bank (ECB) and
internati onal organisations, such as the Financial Stability Board, have drawn attention to those systemic risks, in
particular as regards climat e. Invest ors are also less able to channel financial resources to under takings and
economic activities that address and do not exacerbate social and environmental problems, which under mines the
objectives of the Green Deal, the Action Plan on Financing Sustainable Growth and the Paris Agreement. Non-
governmental organisations, social partners, communities affect ed by under takings’ activities, and other
stake holders are less able to hold under takings accountable for their impa cts on people and the environment. This
creat es an accountability deficit and could lead to lower levels of citizen trust in businesses, which in turn could
have negativ e impa cts on the efficient functioning of the social mark et econom y. The lack of generally accept ed
metr ics and methods for measur ing, valuing, and managing sustainability-related risks is also an obstacle to the
efforts of under takings to ensure that their business models and activities are sustainable. The lack of sustainability
information provi ded by under takings also limits the ability of stake holders, including civil society actors, trade
unions and worke rs’ representatives, to enter into dialogue with under takings on sustainability matt ers.
(15) The Commission repor t on the review clauses and its accompan ying fitness check also identified a signif icant
increase in requests to under takings for information about sustainability matte rs aimed at addressing the existing
information gap between users’ information needs and the available corporate sustainability information. In
addition, ongoing expectations on under takings to use a variety of diffe rent framew orks and standards are likely to
continue and may even intensify as the value placed on sustainability information continues to grow. In the absence
of policy action to build consensus on the information that under takings should repor t, there will be signif icant
increases in term s of cost and burden for repor ting under takings and for users of such information.
(16) The existing information gap makes it more likely that individual Member States will introduce increasing ly
diverg ent national rules or standards. Different repor ting requirements in differ ent Member State s could create
additional costs and compl exity for under takings operating across borders and theref ore under mine the internal
mark et, and could under mine the right of establishment and the free mov ement of capital across the Union. Such
differ ent repor ting requirements could also mak e repor ted information less comparable across borders,
under mining the capital mark ets union.