File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 194 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 194/284AR 79. Employee categories are a breakdown of employees by level (such as senior management, middle management) or
function (such as technical, administrative, production). This information is derived from the undertaking’s own
human resources system. In categorising the workforce, the undertaking shall define reasonable and meaningful
employee categories which enable users of the information to understand different performance measures
between the categories. The undertaking may present a category for executive and non- executive employees.
Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics
AR 80. In relation to paragraph 88 (a), the percentage of its own workforce who are covered by the undertaking’s health
and safety management system shall be disclosed on a head count basis rather than a full-time equivalent basis.
AR 81. With regard to paragraph 90, when the undertaking’s health and safety management system, or certain parts
thereof, has been subject to an internal audit or external certification, the undertaking may state this fact, or
absence thereof, and the underlying standards for such audits/certifications, as applicable.
AR 82. Fatalities may be reported separately for those resulting from work-related injuries and those resulting from
work-related ill health.
Guidance on “work-related”
AR 83. Work-related injuries and work-related ill health arise from exposure to hazards at work. Notwithstanding,
other types of incidents can occur that are not connected with the work itself. For example, the following
incidents are generally not considered to be work-related, unless otherwise specified in applicable national
legislation:
(a) a person in the workforce suffers a heart attack while at work that it is not connected with work;
(b) a person in the workforce driving to or from work is injured in a car accident (when driving is not part of the work and where the transport has not been organised by the undertaking); and
(c) a person in the workforce with epilepsy has a seizure at work that is not connected with work.
AR 84. With regard to travelling for work purposes, injuries and ill health that occur while a person is travelling are work-related if, at the time of the injury or ill health, the person was engaged in work activities “in the interest of the employer”. Examples of such activities include travelling to and from customer contacts; conducting job tasks;
and entertaining or being entertained to transact, discuss, or promote business (at the direction of the employer).
If the undertaking is responsible for the transport commuting, incidents occurred while commuting are
considered to be work-related. Nonetheless, incidents which arise during travel, outside of the undertaking’s responsibility (i.e., regular commuting to and from work), may be reported separately provided that the undertaking has such data available across the undertaking.
AR 85. With regard to working from home, injuries and ill health that occur when working from home are work-related,
if the injury or ill health occurs while the person is performing work from home; and the injury or ill health is
directly related to the performance of work rather than the general home environment or setting.
AR 86. With regard to mental illness, it is considered to be work-related, if it has been notified voluntarily by the person concerned and it is supported by an opinion from a licensed healthcare professional with appropriate training
and experience; and if such opinion states that the illness is work-related.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 195 of 284 ---