File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:14
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 633 of 686
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 266/284Discrimination Discrimination can occur directly or indirectly. Direct discrimination
occurs when an individual is treated less favourably by comparison to how
others, who are in a similar situation, have been or would be treated, and the
reason for this is a particular characteristic they hold, which falls under a
‘protected ground’. Indirect discrimination occurs when an apparently
neutral rule disadvantages a person or a group sharing the same characteristics. It must be shown that a group is disadvantaged by a
decision when compared to a comparator group.
Double materiality Double materiality has two dimensions: impact materiality and financial
materiality . A sustainability matter meets the criterion of double
materiality if it is material from the impact perspective or the financial
perspective or both.
Durability of a product, component or materialThe ability of a product, component or material to remain functional and relevant when used as intended.
Ecological threshold The point at which a relatively small change in external conditions causes a rapid change in an ecosystem. When an ecological threshold has been
passed, the ecosystem may no longer be able to return to its state by means
of its inherent resilience.
Ecosystem extent The size of an ecosystem asset, whereas an ecosystem asset is the contiguous
space of a specific ecosystem type characterised by a distinct set of biotic and
abiotic components and their interactions.
Ecosystem restoration Any intentional activities that initiate or accelerate the recovery of an
ecosystem from a degraded state.
Ecosystem services The contributions of ecosystems to the benefits that are used in economic
and other human activity, respectively the benefits people obtain from
ecosystems . In the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment, ecosystem services
can be divided into supporting, regulating, provisioning and cultural. The Common International Classification of Ecosystem Services (CICES)
classifies types of ecosystems services.
Ecosystem(s) A dynamic complex of plant, animal and micro-organism communities and
their non-living environment interacting as a functional unit. A typology of
ecosystems is provided by the IUCN Global Ecosystem Typology 2.0.
Emission The direct or indirect release of substances, vibrations, heat or noise from
individual or diffuse sources into air, water or soil (
12).
Employee An individual who is in an employment relationship with the undertaking
according to national law or practice.
End-users Individuals who ultimately use or are intended to ultimately use a particular
product or service.
Equal opportunities Equal and non-discriminatory access, among individuals, to opportunities
for education, training, employment, career development and the exercise
of power without their being disadvantaged on the basis of criteria such as