File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 11 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(21)  In order to ensure that transitional manufacturing activities as referred to in Article 10(2) of Regulation (EU) 
2020/852 remain on a credible pathway to decarbonisation and in accordance with Article 19(5) of that Regu ­
lation, the technical screening criteria for those economic activities should be reviewed at a minimum, every three
years. That review should include an analysis of whether the technical screening criteria are underpinned by the
most relevant standards and whether life-cycle emissions from those activities are sufficiently taken into account.
That review should also assess the potential use of captured carbon, in the light of technology development. For
manufacturing of iron and steel, new data and evidences from low-carbon steel pilot production processes using
hydrogen should be further considered and the use of EU emissions trading scheme and of other possible
benchmarks in the technical screening criteria should be further assessed.  
(22)  For manufacturing activities that are to be considered to be the enabling activities referred to in Article 10(1), 
point (i), of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, the technical screening criteria should be based predominantly on the
nature of the manufactured products, combined, where appropriate, with additional quantitative thresholds to
ensure that those products can make a substantial contribution to avoidance or reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions in other sectors. In order to reflect the fact that priority is given to activities that have the greatest
potential to avoid producing greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce such emissions or to increase greenhouse gas
removals and long-term carbon storage, the enabling manufacturing activities should focus on the manufacturing
of products that are necessary for those economic activities to be carried out.  
(23)  The manufacturing of electrical equipment for electricity plays an important role for the upgrade, uptake and 
compensation of fluctuations of the electricity provided by the renewable sources of energy in the Union electric
grids, the recharging of the zero emissions vehicles and deployment of smart, green house applications. At the
same time, manufacturing of electrical equipment for electricity might enable the development of the smart
housing concept with the objective of further promoting the use of renewable sources of energy and the good
management of home equipment. It might therefore be necessary to complement the technical screening criteria in
the manufacturing sector and to assess the potential of the manufacture of electrical equipment to make a
substantial contribution to the climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation.  
(24)  Energy efficiency measures and other climate change mitigation measures, such as deployment of on-site renewable 
energy technologies, and existing state-of-the-art technologies can lead to significant greenhouse gas emission
reductions in the manufacturing sector. Therefore, those measures can play an important role to help economic
activities in the manufacturing sector for which technical screening criteria should be established, to reach their
respective performance standards and thresholds for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation.  
(25)  The energy sector accounts for approximately 22 % of direct greenhouse gas emissions in the Union and for 
approximately 75 % of those emissions when taking into account the use of energy in other sectors. It thus plays a
key role in climate change mitigation. The energy sector has significant potential to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, and several activities in that sector act as enabling activities that facilitate the transition of the
energy sector towards renewable or low-carbon electricity or heat. It is therefore appropriate to establish
technical screening criteria for a wide range of activities related to the energy supply chain, ranging from electricity
or heat generation from different sources, through transmission and distribution networks to storage, as well as
heat pumps and the manufacture of biogas and biofuels.  
(26)  The technical screening criteria for determining whether electricity or heat generation activities, including cogen ­
eration activities, contribute substantially to climate change mitigation should ensure that greenhouse gas emissions
are reduced or avoided. Technical screening criteria based on greenhouse gas emissions should signal the decarbon ­
isation pathway for those activities. The technical screening criteria for enabling activities that facilitate the long-
term decarbonisation should predominantly be based on the nature of the activity or on the best available
technologies.