File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 26 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

the definition of the term ‘sustainability factors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 does not explicitly include
governance matters. The definit ion of the term ‘sustainability matte rs’ in Directive 2013/34/EU as amended by this
amending Directive should theref ore cover envi ronmental, social and human rights, and governance factors, and
incor porate the definition of the term ‘sustainability factors’ laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088. The
repor ting requirements of Directive 2013/34/EU should be without prejudice to national repor ting obligations.
(29) Article 19a(1) and Article 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require repor ting not only on information to the extent
necessar y for an understanding of the under taking’s development, performa nce and position, but also on
information necessar y for an understanding of the impact of the under taking’s activities on environmental, social
and employee matt ers, respect for human rights, anti-cor rupti on and briber y matters. Those Articles theref ore
require under takings to repor t both on the impa cts of the activities of the under taking on people and the
environment, and on how sustainability matt ers affect the under taking. That is refer red to as the double mat eriality
perspective, in which the risks to the under taking and the impacts of the under taking each represent one mater iality
perspective. The fitness check on corporate repor ting shows that those two perspectives are often not well
underst ood or applied. It is theref ore necessar y to clarify that under takings should consider each mat eriality
perspective in its own right, and should disclose information that is mate rial from both perspectives as well as
information that is mate rial from only one perspective.
(30) Article 19a(1) and Article 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU require under takings to disclose information about five
repor ting areas: business model; policies, including due dilig ence processes implement ed; the outcome of those
policies; risks and risk manag ement ; and key performa nce indicator s relevant to the business. Article 19a(1) of
Directive 2013/34/EU does not contain explicit references to other repor ting areas that users of information
consider relevant, some of which align with disclosures included in internatio nal framew orks, including the
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-relat ed Financial Disclosures. Disclosure requirements should be
specifi ed in sufficient detail to ensure that under takings repor t information on their resilience in relation to risks
relat ed to sustainability matt ers. In addition to the repor ting areas identif ied in Article 19a(1) and Article 29a(1) of
Directive 2013/34/EU, under takings should be required to disclose information about their business strategy and
the resilience of the business model and strateg y in relation to risks related to sustainability matt ers. They should
also be required to disclose any plans they may have to ensure that their business model and strategy are compati ble
with the transition to a sustainable econom y and with the objectives of limiting global warming to 1,5 °C in line with
the Paris Agreement and achi eving climate neutrality by 2050, as established in Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, with no
or limited overshoot.
It is especially important that plans relat ed to the climat e be based on the latest science, including Intergo vernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) repor ts and repor ts by the European Scientifi c Advisor y Board on Climate Change.
Information disclosed in accordance with Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 about the amount of capital
expenditure (CapEx) or operating expenditure (OpEx) associated with taxonomy-al igned activities could suppor t
financial and inve stment plans related to such plans where appropr iate. Under takings should also be required to
disclose whether and how their business model and strateg y take account of the interests of stakeholders; any
oppor tunities for the under taking arising from sustainability matters; the implementation of the aspects of the
business strategy which affect, or are affected by, sustainability matt ers; any sustainability targe ts set by the