File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 53 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 53/28459. The undertaking shall provide an explanation of how it has determined the material information to be disclosed in
relation to the impacts, risks and opportunities that it has assessed to be material, including the use of
thresholds and/or how it has implemented the criteria in ESRS 1 section 3.2 Material matters and materiality of
information.
4.2 Minimum disclosure requirements on policies and actions
60. This section sets out minimum disclosure requirements to be included when the undertaking discloses information
on its policies and actions to prevent, mitigate and remediate actual and potential material impacts, to address
material risks and/or to pursue material opportunities (collectively, to “manage material sustainability matters”).
They shall be applied together with the Disclosure Requirements, including Application Requirements, provided in
the relevant topical and sector-specific ESRS. They shall also be applied when the undertaking prepares entity-
specific disclosures.
61. The corresponding disclosures shall be located alongside disclosures prescribed by the relevant ESRS. When a single
policy or same actions address several interconnected sustainability matters, the undertaking may disclose the
required information in its reporting under one topical ESRS and cross reference to it in its reporting under other topical ESRS.
62. If the undertaking cannot disclose the information on policies and actions required under relevant ESRS, because it
has not adopted policies and/or actions with reference to the specific sustainability matter concerned, it shall
disclose this to be the case, and provide reasons for not having adopted policies and/or actions. The undertaking
may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to adopt them.
Minimum Disclosure Requirement – Policies MDR-P – Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters
63. The undertaking shall apply the minimum disclosure requirements defined in this provision when it discloses the
policies it has in place with regard to each sustainability matter identified as material.
64. The objective of this Minimum Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the policies that the
undertaking has in place to prevent, mitigate and remediate actual and potential impacts, to address risks and to
pursue opportunities.
65. The undertaking shall disclose information about policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters. The
disclosure shall include the following information:
(a) a description of the key contents of the policy , including its general objectives and which material impacts, risks
or opportunities the policy relates to and the process for monitoring;
(b) a description of the scope of the policy, or of its exclusions, in terms of activities, upstream and/or downstream
value chain, geographies and if relevant, affected stakeholder groups;
(c) the most senior level in the undertaking’s organisation that is accountable for the implementation of the policy;
(d) a reference, if relevant, to the third-party standards or initiatives the undertaking commits to respect through the
implementation of the policy;
(e) if relevant, a description of the consideration given to the interests of key stakeholders in setting the policy; and
(f) if relevant, whether and how the undertaking makes the policy available to potentially affected stakeholders, and stakeholders who need to help implement it.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 54 of 284 ---