File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 245 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 244/284AR 28. When the undertaking discloses its participation in an industry or multi-stakeholder initiative as part of its actions
to address material negative impacts, the undertaking may disclose how the initiative, and its own involvement, is
aiming to address the material impact concerned. It may disclose under ESRS S4-5 the relevant targets set by the
initiative and progress towards them.
AR 29. When disclosing whether and how it considers actual and potential impacts on consumers and/or end-users in
decisions to terminate business relationships and whether and how it seeks to address any negative impacts that
may result from termination, the undertaking may include examples.
AR 30. In disclosing how it tracks the effectiveness of actions to manage material impacts during the reporting period, the
undertaking may disclose any lessons learned from the previous and current reporting periods.
AR 31. Processes used to track the effectiveness of actions can include internal or external auditing or verification, court
proceedings and/or related court decisions, impact assessments, measurement systems, stakeholder feedback,
grievance mechanisms, external performance ratings, and benchmarking.
AR 32. Reporting on effectiveness is aimed at enabling the understanding of the links between actions taken by the
undertaking and the effective management of impacts.
AR 33. With regard to initiatives or processes the undertaking has in place that are based on affected consumers and/or
end-users’ needs and their level of implementation, the undertaking may disclose:
(a) information about whether and how consumers and/or end-users and legitimate representatives or their
credible proxies play a role in decisions regarding the design and implementation of these programmes or
processes; and
(b) information about the intended or achieved positive outcomes for consumers and/or end- users of these programmes or processes.
AR 34. The undertaking may disclose whether any initiatives or processes whose primary aim is to deliver positive impacts for consumers and/or end-users are designed to also support the achievement of one or more of the UN
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For example, through a commitment to advance UN SDG 3 to “ensure
healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages” the undertaking may be actively working to make its
products less addictive and harmful to physical and psychological health.
AR 35. When disclosing the intended positive outcomes of its actions for consumers and/or end-users a distinction is to
be made between evidence of certain activities having occurred (for example, that x number of consumers have
received information about healthy eating habits) from evidence of actual outcomes for consumers and/or end-
users (for example, that x number of consumers have adopted healthier eating habits).
AR 36. When disclosing whether initiatives or processes also play a role in mitigating material negative impacts, the
undertaking may, for example, consider programmes that aim to support heightened awareness of the risk of
online scams, leading to a reduction in the number of cases of end-users experiencing breaches of data privacy.
AR 37. When disclosing the material risks and opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts or dependencies on
consumers and/or end-users, the undertaking may consider the following:
(a) risks related to the undertaking’s impacts on consumers and/or end-users may include reputational or legal
exposure where poorly designed or defective products result in injuries or deaths;
(b) risks related to the undertaking’s dependencies on consumers and/or end-users may include the loss of
business continuity where an economic crisis makes consumers unable to afford certain products or services;OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 245 of 284 ---