File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:03
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 628 of 966
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(e) where the solution implemented is physical and consists in an activity for which technical screening criteria
have been specified in this Annex, the solution complies with the do no significant harm technical screening
criteria for that activity.  
Do no significant harm (‘DNSH’)  
(1) Climate change mitigation  N/A  
(3) Sustainable use and protection of
water and marine resources  For pumped hydropower storage not connected to a river body, the 
activity complies with the criteria set out in Appendix B to this Annex.
For hydropower storage connected to a river body, the activity complies
with the criteria for DNSH to sustainable use and protection of water and
marine resources specified in Section 4.5 (Electricity production from
hydropower).  
(4) Transition to a circular economy  A waste management plan is in place and ensures maximal reuse or 
recycling at end of life in accordance with the waste hierarchy,
including through contractual agreements with waste management
partners, reflection in financial projections or official project documen ­
tation.  
(5) Pollution prevention and control  N/A  
(6) Protection and restoration of
biodiversity and ecosystems  The activity complies with the criteria set out in Appendix D to this 
Annex.  
4.11.  Storage of thermal energy  
Description of the activity  
Construction and operation of facilities that store thermal energy and return it at a later time, in the form of
thermal energy or other energy vectors.  
Where an economic activity is an integral element of the ‘Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy
technologies’ as referred to in Section 7.6 of this Annex, the technical screening criteria specified in Section 7.6
apply.  
The economic activities in this category have no dedicated NACE code as referred to in the statistical classification
of economic activities established by Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006.  
Technical screening criteria  
Substantial contribution to climate change adaptation  
1. The economic activity has implemented physical and non-physical solutions (‘adaptation solutions’) that
substantially reduce the most important physical climate risks that are material to that activity.
2. The physical climate risks that are material to the activity have been identified from those listed in
Appendix A to this Annex by performing a robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment with the
following steps:
(a) screening of the activity to identify which physical climate risks from the list in Appendix A to this Annex
may affect the performance of the economic activity during its expected lifetime;
(b) where the activity is assessed to be at risk from one or more of the physical climate risks listed in Appendix A