File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 8 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(9) If under takings carried out better sustainability repor ting, the ultimate beneficiar ies would be individual citizens and
savers, including trade unions and worke rs’ representatives who would be adequate ly informed and theref ore able to
bette r engag e in social dialogue. Savers who want to inve st sustainably will have the oppor tunity to do so, while all
citizens would benefi t from a stable, sustainable and inclusive economic system . To realise such benefits, the
sustainability information disclosed in the annual repor ts of under takings first has to reach two primar y groups of
users. The first group of users consists of invest ors, including asset managers, who want to bette r understand the
risks and oppor tunities that sustainability issues pose for their investments and the impact s of those investments on
people and the environment. The second group of users consists of civil society actors , including non-go vernmental
organisations and social partners, which wish to better hold under takings to account for their impacts on people and
the environment. Other stak eholders might also make use of sustainability information disclosed in annual repor ts,
in particular to foster comparab ility across and within mark et sectors .
The business partners of under takings, including custome rs, might rely on sustainability information to understand
and, where necessar y, repor t on their sustainability risks and impacts throughout their own value chains. Policy
make rs and environmental agencies can use such information, in particular on an aggreg ate basis, to monitor
environmental and social trends, to contr ibut e to environmental accounts, and to inform public policy . Few
individual citizens and consumers directly consult under takings’ annual repor ts, but they might use sustainability
information indirectly , for exam ple, when consider ing the advice or opinions of financial advisers or non-
governmental orga nisations. Many inve stors and asset managers purchase sustainability information from third-
party data providers, who collect information from various sources, including public corporat e repor ts.
(10) The mark et for sustainability information is rapidly growing, and the role of third-par ty data provid ers is gainin g in
imp ortance given the new oblig ations that inve stors and asset manage rs need to fulfil. With the increased availability
of disaggregat ed data, sustainability information should come at a more reasonable cost. The amendments to
Directive 2013/34/EU provided for in this amending Directive are expecte d to increase the comparability of data
and harmonise standards. It is expecte d that the practices of third-par ty data providers will impro ve and that
exper tise will grow in this area, with a poten tial for job creation.
(11) There has been a very significant increase in demand for corporate sustainability information in recent years,
especially on the part of the inve stment community . That increase in demand is driven by the changing nature of
risks to under takings and growing invest or awar eness of the financia l imp lications of those risks. That is especially
the case for climat e-related financial risks. There is also growing awar eness of the risks and oppor tunities for
under takings and for investments resulting from other environmental issues, such as biodiversity loss, and from
health and social issues, including child labour and forced labour . The increase in demand for sustainability
information is also driven by the growth in investment products that explicitly seek to meet certain sustainability
standards or achi eve certain sustainability objectives and to ensure coherence with the ambition of the Paris
Agreement under the United Nations Framew ork Conv ention on Climate Change adopt ed on 12 December 2015
(the ‘Pari s Agreement ’), the UN Conv ention on Biological Diversity and Union policies. Part of that increase is the
logical consequence of previously adopt ed Union legislation, notably Regulations (EU) 2019/2088 and (EU)
2020/852. Some of that increase would have happened in any case, due to fast-changing citizen aware ness,
consumer preferences and mark et practices. The COVID-19 pandemic has further accelerat ed the increase in users’
information needs, in particular as it has exposed the vulnerabilities of work ers and under takings’ value chains.