File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 186 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 187/284comply with prevailing regulation. The undertaking may highlight present and/or expected external
developments that influence whether dependencies turn into risks. This includes consideration of impacts that
may arise from the transition to greener and climate-neutral operations.
AR 44. When disclosing the material risks and opportunities related to its impacts or dependencies on its own
workforce, the undertaking may consider the following:
(a) risks related to the undertaking’s impacts on its own workforce may include the reputational or legal exposure where people in the undertaking’s workforce are found to be subject to forced labour or child
labour;
(b) risks related to the undertaking’s dependencies on its own workforce may include disruption of business operations where significant employee turnover or lack of skills/training development threaten the
undertaking’s business; and
(c) opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts on its own workforce may include market differentiation
and greater customer appeal from guaranteeing decent pay and conditions for non-employees.
AR 45. When explaining whether dependencies turn into risks, the undertaking shall consider external developments.
AR 46. When disclosing policies, actions and resources and targets related to the management of material risks and
opportunities, in cases where risks and opportunities arise from a material impact, the undertaking may cross-
reference its disclosures on policies, actions and resources and targets in relation to that impact.
AR 47. The undertaking shall consider whether and how its process(es) to manage material risks related to own
workforce are integrated into its existing risk management process(es).
AR 48. When disclosing the resources allocated to the management of material impacts, the undertaking may explain
which internal functions are involved in managing the impacts and what types of action they take to address
negative and advance positive impacts.
Metrics and targets
Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material impacts, advancing positive impacts, as well as to
risks and opportunities
AR 49. When disclosing information about targets in accordance with paragraph 46, the undertaking may disclose:
(a) the intended outcomes to be achieved in the lives of a certain number of people in its own workforce;
(b) the stability of the targets over time in terms of definitions and methodologies to enable comparability over
time; and/or
(c) the standards or commitments which the targets are based on (for instance codes of conduct, sourcing
policies, global frameworks, or industry codes).
AR 50. Targets related to risks and opportunities may be the same as or distinct from targets related to impacts. For
example, a target to reach adequate wages for non-employees could both reduce impacts on those people and
reduce associated risks in terms of the quality and reliability of their output.
AR 51. The undertaking may also distinguish between short-, medium- and long-term targets covering the same policy
commitment. For example, the undertaking may have a long-term target to achieve an 80% reduction in health and safety incidents affecting its delivery drivers by 2030 and a near-term target to reduce the overtime hours of
delivery drivers by x% while maintaining their income by 2024.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 188 of 284 ---