File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 8 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(16)  To measure the evolution of greenhouse gas emission savings and carbon stock in forest ecosystems, it is 
appropriate that forest owners should perform a climate benefit analysis. In order to reflect proportionality and
minimise administrative burden for small-scale forest owners in particular, forest holdings below 13 hectares
should not be required to perform a climate benefit analysis. In order to reduce administrative costs further,
smaller forest owners should be allowed to perform a group assessment with other holdings to certify their
calculations, performed every 10 years. Adequate free-of charge tools, such as tools provided by the Food and
Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), based on data of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) (  4 ), are available to estimate the magnitude of costs and minimise costs and burdens for small-scale 
foresters. The tool can notably be adapted to different levels of analysis, such as specific values and detailed
calculation for big holdings, default values and simplified calculation for smaller owners.  
(17)  In the follow-up to communications from the Commission of 11 December 2019 ‘The European Green Deal’ (  5 ), 
of 20 May 2020 on ‘EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030’ (  6 ) and of 17 September 2020 ‘Stepping up Europe’s 2030 
climate ambition – Investing in a climate-neutral future for the benefit of our people’ (  7 ), in line with Union wider 
biodiversity and climate neutrality ambitions, with the communication from the Commission of 24 February 2021
‘Forging a climate-resilient Europe – the new EU Strategy on Adaptation to Climate Change (  8 ), and with the new 
Forests Strategy planned in 2021, technical screening criteria for forest activities should be complemented,
reviewed and where necessary revised at the time of adoption of the delegated act referred to in Article 15(2)
of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. Those technical screening criteria should be reviewed to take better into account
biodiversity friendly practices that are under development such as close to nature forestry.  
(18)  Given its importance for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and for strengthening land carbon sinks, wetland 
restoration has a potential to contribute substantially to climate change mitigation. Wetlands restoration can also
deliver benefits for climate change adaptation, including through buffering climate change impacts, and help to
reverse the loss of biodiversity and to preserve water quantity and quality. To ensure coherence with the ‘The
European Green Deal’, with the communication ‘Stepping up Europe’s 2030 climate ambition’ and with the EU
Biodiversity Strategy for 2030, technical screening criteria should also cover the restoration of wetlands.  
(19)  The manufacturing sector emits approximately 21 % of direct greenhouse gas emissions in the Union (  9 ). It is the 
third largest source of those emissions in the Union and thus can play a pivotal role in climate change mitigation.
At the same time, manufacturing can be a key sector in enabling greenhouse gas emission avoidance and
reductions in other sectors of the economy by manufacturing the products and technologies that those other
sectors need in order to become or remain low-carbon. The technical screening criteria for the manufacturing
sector should therefore be specified both for manufacturing activities associated with the highest levels of
greenhouse gas emissions and for manufacturing of low-carbon products and technologies.  
(20)  Manufacturing activities for which there are no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives 
but that support the transition to a climate-neutral economy should be considered transitional economic activities,
as referred to in Article 10(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. To encourage the reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions, the thresholds of the technical screening criteria for those activities should be set at a level that will
only be achievable by the best performers of each sector, in most cases based on greenhouse gas emissions per
unit of output produced.EN  L 442/4 Official Journal of the European Union 9.12.2021