File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 51 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 51/284(f) information about the resilience of the undertaking's strategy and business model regarding its capacity to
address its material impacts and risks and to take advantage of its material opportunities. The undertaking shall
disclose a qualitative and, when applicable, a quantitative analysis of the resilience, including how the analysis
was conducted and the time horizons that were applied as defined in ESRS 1 (see ESRS 1 chapter 6 Time
horizons). When providing quantitative information, the undertaking may disclose single amounts or ranges;
(g) changes to the material impacts, risks and opportunities compared to the previous reporting period; and
(h) a specification of those impacts, risks and opportunities that are covered by ESRS Disclosure Requirements as
opposed to those covered by the undertaking using additional entity-specific disclosures.
49. The undertaking may disclose the descriptive information required in paragraph 46 alongside the disclosures
provided under the corresponding topical ESRS, in which case it shall still present a statement of its material
impacts, risks and opportunities alongside its disclosures prepared under this chapter of ESRS 2.
4. Impact, risk and opportunity management
4.1 Disclosures on the materiality assessment process
50. This chapter sets disclosure requirements that enable an understanding of:
(a) the process to identify material impacts, risks and opportunities; and
(b) the information that, as a result of its materiality assessment, the undertaking has included in its sustainability
statement.
Disclosure Requirement IRO-1 - Description of the process to identify and assess material impacts, risks and
opportunities
51. The undertaking shall disclose its process to identify its impacts, risks and opportunities and to assess
which ones are material.
52. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the process through which the
undertaking identifies impacts, risks and opportunities and assesses their materiality, as the basis for determining
the disclosures in its sustainability statement (see ESRS 1 chapter 3 and its related Application Requirements, which
set out requirements and principles regarding the process to identify and assess material impacts, risks and
opportunities based on the principle of double materiality).
53. The undertaking shall disclose the following information:
(a) a description of the methodologies and assumptions applied in the described process;
(b) an overview of the process to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor the undertaking’s potential and actual
impacts on people and the environment, informed by the undertaking’s due diligence process, including an
explanation of whether and how the process:
i. focusses on specific activities, business relationships, geographies or other factors that give rise to heightened
risk of adverse impacts;
ii. considers the impacts with which the undertaking is involved through its own operations or as a result of its
business relationships;
iii. includes consultation with affected stakeholders to understand how they may be impacted and with external
experts;
iv. prioritises negative impacts based on their relative severity and likelihood, (see ESRS 1 section 3.4 Impact
materiality) and, if applicable, positive impacts on their relative scale, scope and likelihood, and determines
which sustainability matters are material for reporting purposes, including the qualitative or quantitative
thresholds and other criteria used as prescribed by ESRS 1 section 3.4 Impact materiality ;OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 52 of 284 ---