File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 50 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(51) The sustainability repor ting standards should promot e a more integrat ed view of all the information published by
under takings in the manag ement repor t to provid e users of that information with a better understanding of the
development, performance, position and impact of the under taking. The sustainability repor ting standards should
distinguish, as necessar y, between information that under takings should disclose when repor ting at individual level
and the information that under takings should disclose when repor ting at group level. The sustainability repor ting
standards should also contain guidance for under takings on the process for identifying the sustainability
information that should be included in the manage ment repor t, since an under taking should only be required to
disclose the information relevant to understanding its impa cts on sustainability matt ers, and the information
relevant to understanding how sustainability matte rs affect its development, performa nce and position.
(52) Member States should ensure that sustainability repor ting is carried out in compl iance with work ers’ rights to
information and consultation. The manag ement of the under taking should theref ore inform workers’
representatives at the appropr iate level and discuss with them relevant information and the means of obtaining and
verifying sustainability information. This implies for the purpose of this amending Directive the establishment of
dialogue and exchange of views between worke rs’ representatives and central manag ement or any other level of
manage ment that could be more appropr iate, at such times, in such fashion and with such content as would enable
workers’ representatives to express their opinion. Their opinion should be communicated, where applicable, to the
relevant administrative, manage ment or super visor y bodies.
(53) Under takings in the same sector are often exposed to similar sustainability-relate d risks, and they often have similar
imp acts on society and the environment. Com parisons between under takings in the same sector are especially
valuable to inve stors and other users of sustainability information. Sustainability repor ting standards should
theref ore specify both information that under takings in all sectors should disclose and information that
under takings should disclose depending on their sector of activity . Sector -specifi c sustainability repor ting standards
are especially imp ortant in the case of sectors associated with high sustainability risks for or impacts on the
environment, human rights and govern ance, including sectors listed in Sections A to H and Section L of Annex I to
Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (32), and the relevant activities within
those sector s. When adopt ing sector -specif ic sustainability repor ting standards, the Commission should ensure the
information specifi ed by those sustainability repor ting standards is propor tionat e to the scale of the risks and
imp acts relat ed to sustainability matters specific to each sector , taking account of the fact that the risks and impacts
of some sector s are higher than for others. The Commission should also take account of the fact that not all activities
within such sector s are necessar ily associated with high sustainability risks or impacts. For under takings that operat e
in sectors particularly reliant on natural resources, sector -specif ic sustainability repor ting standards would require
the disclosure of nature-related impacts on and risks for biodiversity and ecosystems.
Sustainability repor ting standards should also take account of the difficulties that under takings may encounter in
gathering information from actors throughout their value chain, especially from suppliers that are small or
medium-sized under takings and from suppliers in emerging mark ets and economies. Sustainability repor ting
standards should specify disclosures concer ning value chains that are propor tionate and relevant to the scale and
compl exity of the activities of the under takings, and the capacities and charact eristics of under takings in value
chains, especially those capacities and charact eristics of under takings that are not subject to the sustainability
repor ting requirements provid ed for in this amending Directive. Sustainability repor ting standards should not
specify disclosures that would require under takings to obtain information from small and medium-sized
under takings in their value chain that exceed s the information to be disclosed in accordance with the sustainability
repor ting standards for small and medium-sized under takings. This should be without prejudice to any Union