File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 60 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 60/284AR 18. This disclosure may be expressed in terms of a single impact, risk or opportunity or by aggregating groups of
material impacts, risks and opportunities, when this provides more relevant information and does not obscure
material information.
4. Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement IRO-2 – Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability
statement
AR 19. Notwithstanding the basis for the presentation of the information about sustainability matters included in ESRS 1
chapter 8 Structure of sustainability statement, the undertaking may disclose the list of the Disclosure Requirements
complied with in preparing the sustainability statement (see paragraph 54) in the general information part or in
other parts of the sustainability statement as it deems appropriate. The undertaking may use a content index, i.e.,
a tabular list of the Disclosure Requirements included in the sustainability statement, with the indication of where
they are located (page/paragraphs).
Minimum Disclosure Requirement – Policies MDR-P – Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters
AR 20. Due to the interdependency between impacts on people and the environment, risks and opportunities, a single
policy may apply to several material sustainability matters, including matters addressed by more than one topical
ESRS. For example, if a single policy covers both an environmental matter and a social matter, the undertaking may
report on the policy in the environmental section of its sustainability statement. In this case, it should include in
the social section a cross-reference to the environmental section where the policy is reported. Equally a policy may
be reported in the social section with a cross-reference to it in the environmental section.
AR 21. The description of the scope of the policy may explain which activities and/or segments of the undertaking’s own
operations or upstream and downstream value chain it concerns. The description may also explain further
boundaries relevant to the specific topic or the undertaking’s circumstances, which may include geographies, life
cycles, etc. In certain cases, such as if the policy does not cover the full value chain, the undertaking may provide
clear information regarding the extent of the value chain covered by the policy.
Minimum disclosure requirement – Actions MDR-A – Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability
matters
AR 22. Key actions in the context of this Minimum Disclosure Requirement are those actions that materially contribute
to achieving the undertaking’s objectives in addressing material impacts, risks and opportunities. For reasons of
understandability, key actions may be aggregated where appropriate.
AR 23. Information on resource allocation may be presented in the form of a table and broken down between capital
expenditure and operating expenditure, and across the relevant time horizons, and between resources applied in
the current reporting year and the planned allocation of resources over specific time horizons.
5. Metrics and targets
Minimum Disclosure Requirement – Targets MDR-T – Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets
AR 24. When disclosing targets related to the prevention or mitigation of environmental impacts, the undertaking shall
prioritise targets related to the reduction of the impacts in absolute terms rather than in relative terms. When
targets address the prevention or mitigation of social impacts, they may be specified in terms of the effects on
human rights, welfare or positive outcomes for affected stakeholders.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 61 of 284 ---