File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:14
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 548 of 686
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 229/284AR 27. Given that material negative impacts affecting communities that have occurred during the reporting period may
also be linked to entities or operations outside its direct control, the undertaking may disclose whether and how it
seeks to use its leverage in its business relationships to manage those impacts. This may include using commercial
leverage (for example, enforcing contractual requirements with business relationships or implementing incentives),
other forms of leverage within the relationship (such as providing training or capacity-building on the rights of
indigenous peoples to entities with which the undertaking has a business relationships) or collaborative leverage
with peers or other actors (such as initiatives aimed at minimising security-related impacts on communities or
participating in company-community partnerships).
AR 28. Impacts on communities may stem from environmental matters which are disclosed by the undertaking under the ESRS E1 to E5. Examples include:
(a) ESRS E1 Climate Change: The implementation of climate change mitigation plans may require the undertaking
to invest in renewable energy projects that may affect the lands, territories and natural resources of indigenous
peoples. If the undertaking does not consult with the affected indigenous peoples , it could negatively impact the affected communities’ right to free, prior and informed consent ;
(b) ESRS E2 Pollution: The undertaking may negatively impact affected communities by failing to protect them
from pollution from a particular production facility that causes them health-related issues;
(c) ESRS E3 Water and marine sources: The undertaking may negatively impact the access to clean drinking water of
communities when withdrawing water in water stressed areas;
(d) ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems: The undertaking may negatively affect the livelihood of local farmers
through operations that contaminate soil. Additional examples include the sealing of land through building
new infrastructure, which can eradicate plant species that are critical for, for example, local biodiversity or to
filter water for communities; or the introduction of invasive species (whether plants or animals) that can
impact ecosystems and cause subsequent harm;
(e) ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy: The undertaking may negatively impact the lives of communities by
affecting their health through the mismanagement of hazardous waste.
Where the connection between environmental impacts and local communities is addressed in the disclosures within the
Disclosure Requirements ESRS E1-E5, the undertaking may cross-reference to those and clearly identify such disclosures.
AR 29. When the undertaking discloses its participation in an industry or multi-stakeholder initiative as part of its actions