File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 215 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 215/284AR 36. With regard to initiatives or processes the undertaking has in place that are based on affected workers’ needs and
with regard to progress in the implementation of such initiatives or processes, the undertaking may disclose:
(a) information about whether and how value chain workers and legitimate representatives or their credible
proxies play a role in decisions regarding the design and implementation of these programmes or processes;
and
(b) information about the intended or achieved positive outcomes for value chain workers of these initiatives or
processes.
AR 37. The undertaking may disclose whether any initiatives or processes whose primary aim is to deliver positive impacts for value chain workers are designed also to support the achievement of one or more of the UN
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For example, through a commitment to advance UN SDG 8 to “promote
sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all”
the undertaking may be providing capacity-building to smallholders in its supply chain, resulting in increases in
their income; or it may be supporting training to increase the proportion of women able to take delivery jobs in
its downstream value chain.
AR 38. When disclosing the intended or achieved positive outcomes of its actions for value chain workers a distinction is
to be made between evidence of certain activities having occurred (e.g., that x number of workers have received
financial literacy training) from evidence of actual outcomes for workers (e.g., that x workers report that they are
able to better manage their household budgets so as to meet their savings goals).
AR 39. When disclosing whether initiatives or processes also play a role in mitigating material negative impacts, the
undertaking may e.g., consider programmes that aim to advance women workers’ financial literacy that have
resulted in more women being promoted as well as in reports of reduced sexual harassment in the workplace.
AR 40. When disclosing the material risks and opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts or dependencies on
value chain workers, the undertaking may consider the following:
(a) risks related to the undertaking’s impacts on value chain workers may include the reputational or legal exposure where value chain workers are found to be subject to forced labour or child labour;
(b) risks related to the undertaking’s dependencies on value chain workers may include disruption of business operations where a pandemic closes significant parts of its supply chain or distribution network;
(c) opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts on value chain workers may include market differentiation and greater customer appeal from guaranteeing decent pay and conditions for non-employee workers; and
(d) business opportunities related to the undertaking’s dependencies on value chain workers might include the achievement of a future sustainable supply of a commodity by ensuring smallholder farmers earn enough to persuade future generations to keep farming that crop.
AR 41. When disclosing whether dependencies turn into risks, the undertaking shall consider external developments.
AR 42. When disclosing policies, actions and resources and targets related to the management of material risks and
opportunities, in cases where risks and opportunities arise from a material impact, the undertaking may cross-
reference its disclosures on policies, action and resources and targets in relation to that impact.
AR 43. The undertaking shall consider whether and how its process(es) to manage material risks related to value chain
workers are integrated into its existing risk management process(es).OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 216 of 284 ---