File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 283 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 283/284Wastewater Water which is of no further immediate value to the purpose for which it
was used or in the pursuit of which it was produced because of its quality,
quantity, or time of occurrence.
Wastewater from one user can be a potential supply to a user elsewhere.
Cooling water is not considered to be wastewater .
Water consumption The amount of water drawn into the boundaries of the undertaking (or
facility) and not discharged back to the water environment or a third party
over the course of the reporting period.
Water discharge The sum of effluents and other water leaving the boundaries of the organisation and released to surface water, groundwater , or third parties
over the course of the reporting period.
Water intensity A metric providing the relationship between a volumetric aspect of water
and a unit of activity (products, sales, etc.) created.
Water (recycled and reused) Water and wastewater (treated or untreated) that has been used more than
once before being discharged from the undertaking’s or shared facilities’ boundary, so that water demand is reduced. This may be in the same
process (recycled) or in a different process within the same facility (own or
shared with other undertakings) or in another of the undertaking’s facilities
(reused).
Water scarcity The volumetric abundance, or lack thereof, of freshwater resources. Scarcity
is human driven, it is a function of the volume of human water consumption
relative to the volume of water resources in a given area. As such, an arid region with very little water, but no human water consumption would not
be considered scarce, but rather arid. Water scarcity is a physical, objective
reality that can be measured consistently across regions and over time.
Water scarcity reflects the physical abundance of freshwater rather than
whether that water is suitable for use. For instance, a region may have abundant water resources (and thus not be considered water scarce) but
have such severe pollution that those supplies are unfit for human or
ecological uses.
Water withdrawal The sum of all water drawn into the boundaries of the undertaking from all
sources for any use over the course of the reporting period.
Workers’ representatives Workers' representatives means:i.trade union representatives, namely representatives designated or elected
by trade unions or by members of such unions in accordance with
national legislation and practice;
ii.duly elected representatives, namely representatives who are freely elected by the workers of the organisation, not under the domination
or control of the employer in accordance with provisions of national
laws or regulations or of collective agreements and whose functions do
not include activities which are the exclusive prerogative of trade unions
in the country concerned and which existence is not used to undermine
the position of the trade unions concerned or their representatives.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 284 of 284 ---