File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 122 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3. When a member of a netw ork to which the statut ory auditor or the audit firm carrying out the assurance of
sustainability repor ting of a public-interest entity belongs provid es the prohibit ed non-audit services referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Article to an under taking incor porated in a third countr y whic h is controlled by the public-
inter est entity that is the subject of assurance of sustainability repor ting, the statut ory auditor or the audit firm
concer ned shall assess whether his, her or its independence would be comprom ised by such provision of services by
the member of the netw ork.
If his, her or its independence is affect ed, the statutor y auditor or the audit firm shall apply safeguards in order to
mitig ate the threats caused by the provi sion of prohibit ed non-audit services referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article
in a third countr y. The statut ory auditor or the audit firm may continue to carry out the assurance of sustainability
repor ting of the public-interest entity only if he, she or it can justify , in accordance with Article 22b, that the
provis ion of such services does not affect his, her or its professiona l judge ment and the assurance repor t on
sustainability repor ting.
Article 25d
Irregular ities
Article 7 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 shall apply mutatis mutandis to a statut ory auditor or an audit firm carrying
out the assurance of sustainability repor ting of a public-interest entity .’;
(15) the follo wing Article is inser ted:
‘Article 26a
Assurance standards for sust ainability repor ting
1. Member States shall require statut ory auditors and audit firms to carry out the assurance of sustainability
repor ting in compl iance with the assurance standards adopt ed by the Commission in accordance with paragraph 3.
2. Member States may apply national assurance standards, procedures or requirements as long as the Commission
has not adopt ed an assurance standard cover ing the same subject matte r.
Member States shall communicate the national assurance standards, procedures or requirements to the Commission
at least three months before their entr y into force.
3. The Commission shall, no later than 1 October 2026 , adop t delegat ed acts in accordance with Article 48a in
order to supplement this Directive in order to provide for limite d assurance standards setting out the procedures that
the auditor(s) and the audit firm(s) shall perform in order to draw his, her or its conclusions on the assurance of
sustainability repor ting, including engagement planning, risk consideration and response to risks and type of
conclusions to be included in the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting, or, where relevant, in the audit repor t.
The Commission shall, no later than 1 October 2028 , adop t delegat ed acts in accordance with Article 48a in order to
supplement this Directive in order to provide for reasonable assurance standards, follo wing an assessment to
determine if reasonable assurance is feasible for auditors and for under takings. Taking into account the results of that
assessment and if theref ore appropr iate, those delegat ed acts shall specify the date from whic h the opinion refer red to
in point (aa) of the second subparagraph of Article 34(1) is to be based on a reasonable assurance engag ement that is
based on those reasonable assurance standards.
The Commission may adopt the assurance standards referred to in the first and second subparagraphs only if they:
(a) have been developed with proper due process, public oversight and transparency ;
(b) contr ibut e a high level of credibility and quality to the annual or consolidated sustainability repor ting; and
(c) are conducive to the Union public good.’;EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Union 16.12.2022 L 322/69  

--- Page 56 of 66 ---