File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:14
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 524 of 686
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 220/28410. In describing the main types of communities who are or could be negatively affected, based on the materiality
assessment set out in Disclosure Requirement ESRS 2 IRO-1
, the undertaking shall disclose whether and how it has
developed an understanding of how affected communities with particular characteristics or those living in particular
contexts, or those undertaking particular activities may be at greater risk of harm.
11. The undertaking shall disclose which, if any, of its material risks and opportunities arising from impacts and
dependencies on affected communities relate to specific groups of affected communities rather than to all affected
communities.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S3-1 – Policies related to affected communities
12. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts on affected communities,
as well as associated material risks and opportunities.
13. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or remediation of material impacts on
affected communities specifically, as well as policies that cover material risks or opportunities related to affected
communities.
14. The disclosure required by paragraph 12 shall contain the information on the undertaking’s policies to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to affected communities in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies
adopted to manage material sustainability matters. In addition, the undertaking shall specify if such policies cover specific affected communities or all affected communities.
15. The undertaking shall disclose any particular policy provisions for preventing and addressing impacts on indigenous
peoples.
16. The undertaking shall describe its human rights policy commitments (
112)that are relevant to affected communities,
including those processes and mechanisms to monitor compliance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises. In its disclosure it shall focus on those matters that are material in relation to (113), as well
as its general approach to:
(a) respect for the human rights of communities, and indigenous peoples specifically;
(b) engagement with affected communities; and
(c) measures to provide and/or enable remedy for human rights impacts.
17. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how its policies with regard to affected communities are aligned with
internationally recognised standards relevant to communities and indigenous peoples specifically, including the
United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The undertaking shall also disclose the