File Name: 1_2024-02-28_RL_2024_825_GCD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:42
Original Size: 0.61 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 20 of 34
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2024/825/oj 7/16(23) Another practice associated with early obsolescence whic h should be prohibit ed and added to the list in Annex I to
Directive 2005/29/EC is inducing the consumer to replace or replenish the consumables of a product earlier than
would other wise be necessar y for technical reasons. Such practices mislead the consumer into believing that the
goods will no long er function unless their consumables are replaced, thus leading the consumer to purch ase more
consumables than necessar y. For exam ple, the practice of urging the consumer , via the settings of the printer , to
replace the printer ink cartridges before they are actually empty in order to stimulate the purch ase of additional ink
cartridge s should be prohibited.
(24) Annex I to Directive 2005/29/EC should also be amended to prohibit the withholding of information from the
consumer about the impair ment of the functionality of a good when using consumables, spare parts or accessor ies
that are not provid ed by the original producer . For exam ple, if a printer is designed in such a way that its
functionality is limited when using ink cartridges not provi ded by the original producer of the printer , that
information should not be hidden from the consumer because such a practice could mislead the consumer into
purchas ing an altern ative ink cartridge which cannot be used for that printer , thus leading to unnecessar y waste
streams or additional costs for the consumer . Similarly , if a smar t device is designed in such a way that its
functionality is limited when using chargers or spare parts that are not provided by the original producer , that
information should not be hidden from the consumer at the time of purch ase. It should also be prohibit ed to
mislead the consumer into believing that using consumables, spare parts or accessor ies not supplied by the original
producer will impair the functionality of a good when this is not the case. In general, traders who are also the
producers of the goods are expect ed to have that information, whereas other traders such as sellers should rely on
reliable information available to them, for instance based on a state ment from a compet ent national author ity or
information provided by the producer .
(25) In order for consumers to take better informed decisions and stimulate demand for, and supply of, more durable
goods, specifi c information about a product’ s durability and reparability should be provided for all types of goods
before concluding the contract. Moreover , as regar ds goods with digital elements, digital cont ent and digital
services, consumers should be informed about the period during whic h free software updates are available.
Theref ore, Directive 2011/83/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (13)should be amended to provi de
consumers with pre-contractual information about durability , reparability and the availabi lity of updat es.
Information should be provided to consumers in a clear and compreh ensible manner and in line with the
accessibility requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/882 of the European Parliament and of the Council (14). The
oblig ation to provide this information to consumers compl ements and does not affect the rights of consumers
provid ed in Directives (EU) 2019/770 and (EU) 2019/771.
(26) A good indicator of a good’s durability is the producer ’s commercial guarantee of durability within the meaning of
Article 17 of Directive (EU) 2019/771. The producer ’s commercial guarant ee of durability is a commitment from a
producer to the consumer on the durability of a good. More specifically , it is a commitment that a good will
maintain its required functions and performa nce through normal use. In order to inform consumers about the fact
that a guarant ee of durability is offered for a particular good, that information should be provid ed to the consumer
using a harmonised label. Traders selling goods should be required, where the producer mak es the information
available to the trader , to inform consumers about the existence and duration of any commercial guarantee of