File Name: 1_2021-07-06_DelVO_2021_2178_TAXORA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:32
Original Size: 10.30 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 37 of 47
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.2.2. KPIs for off-balance sheet exposures
Credit institutions shall disclose a complementary ratio on the level of association with Taxonomy-aligned economic
activities of off-balance sheet exposures that credit institutions manage and channel or contribute to channel capital flows
towards economic activities whose environmental sustainability can be assessed in accordance with Regulation (EU)
2020/852:
(a) financial guarantees backing loans and advances and other debt instruments towards undertakings; and
(b) assets under management.
1.2.2.1. Green ratio for financial guarantees to financial and non-financial undertakings (FinGuar KPI)
The green ratio for financial guarantees to undertakings shall be defined as a proportion of financial guarantees supporting
debt instruments financing Taxonomy-aligned economic activities compared to all financial guarantees supporting debt
securities to undertakings. This shall include disclosures of stock and flow. For climate change mitigation, this shall also
include disclosures of which are enabling and transitional activities. For climate change adaptation, this shall include
disclosures of which are enabling and adaptation activities.
The methodology for the computation of the KPI on financial guarantees shall be the same as the methodology specified for
the KPIs on loans and advances and/or debt securities towards undertakings, but applied to the underlying loans and
advances/debt securities that the credit institution supports.
1.2.2.2. Green ratio for assets under management (AuM KPI)
The green ratio for assets under management shall be the proportion of assets under management (equity and debt
instruments) from undertakings financing Taxonomy-aligned economic activities, compared to total assets under
management (equity and debt instruments). This shall include disclosures of stock and flow. For climate change mitigation,
this shall also include disclosures of which are enabling and transitional activities. For climate change adaptation, this shall
include disclosures of which are enabling and adaptation activities.
The methodology for the computation of the AuM KPI shall be the same as the methodology for asset managers in
accordance with Annex III of this Regulation.
1.2.3. KPIs on services other than lending – Fees and Commissions (F&C KPI)
The KPI for fees and commission income linked to services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities of
undertakings, shall be defined as a proportion of the credit institution’s fees and commission income from undertakings,
derived from products or services other than lending associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities, compared to
the total fees and commission income from undertakings from products or services other than lending.
Credit institutions shall disclose the fees and commission income linked to services provided other than lending and asset
management, including the following services (as reported by institutions in accordance with template 22.1 ‘Fee and
commission income and expenses by activity’ set out in Implementing Regulation (EU) No 680/2014):
(a) issuance or other services related to third party securities;
(b) reception, transmission and execution on behalf of customers of orders to buy or sell securities;
(c) merger and acquisition undertakings advisory services;
(d) undertakings finance services related to capital market advisory for undertakings clients or other;
(e) private banking related fees;
(f) clearing and settlement services;
(g) custody and other related services;
(h) payment services;EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.12.2021 L 443/45  

--- Page 38 of 59 ---