File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 10 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 9/28432. If the undertaking concludes that climate change is not material and therefore omits all disclosure requirements in
ESRS E1 Climate change, it shall disclose a detailed explanation of the conclusions of its materiality assessment with
regard to climate change (see ESRS 2 IRO-2 Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability
statement), including a forward-looking analysis of the conditions that could lead the undertaking to conclude that
climate change is material in the future. If the undertaking concludes that a topic other than climate change is not
material and therefore it omits all the Disclosure Requirements in the corresponding topical ESRS, it may briefly explain the conclusions of its materiality assessment for that topic.
33. When disclosing information on policies, actions and targets in relation to a sustainability matter that has been
assessed to be material, the undertaking shall include the information prescribed by all the Disclosure Requirements and datapoints in the topical and sector-specific ESRS related to that matter and in the corresponding Minimum
Disclosure Requirement on policies, actions, and targets required under ESRS 2. If the undertaking cannot disclose
the information prescribed by either the Disclosure Requirements and datapoints in the topical or sector-specific ESRS, or the Minimum Disclosure Requirements in ESRS 2 on policies, actions and targets, because it has not
adopted the respective policies, implemented the respective actions or set the respective targets, it shall disclose this
to be the case and it may report a timeframe in which it aims to have these in place.
34. When disclosing information on metrics for a material sustainability matter according to the Metrics and Targets
section of the relevant topical ESRS, the undertaking:
(a) shall include the information prescribed by a Disclosure Requirement if it assesses such information to be
material; and
(b) may omit the information prescribed by a datapoint of a Disclosure Requirement if it assesses such information to be not material and concludes that such information is not needed to meet the objective of the Disclosure
Requirement.
35. If the undertaking omits the information prescribed by a datapoint that derives from other EU legislation listed in Appendix B of ESRS 2, it shall explicitly state that the information in question is “not material”.
36. The undertaking shall establish how it applies criteria, including appropriate thresholds, to determine:
(a) the information it discloses on metrics for a material sustainability matter according to the Metrics and Targets
section of the relevant topical ESRS, in accordance with paragraph 34; and
(b) the information to be disclosed as entity-specific disclosures.
3.3 Double materiality
37. Double materiality has two dimensions, namely: impact materiality and financial materiality . Unless specified
otherwise, the terms “material” and “materiality” are used throughout ESRS to refer to double materiality.
38. Impact materiality and financial materiality assessments are inter-related and the interdependencies between these
two dimensions shall be considered. In general, the starting point is the assessment of impacts, although there may
also be material risks and opportunities that are not related to the undertaking’s impacts. A sustainability impact
may be financially material from inception or become financially material, when it could reasonably be expected to
affect the undertaking’s financial position, financial performance, cash flows, its access to finance or cost of capital
over the short-, medium- or long-term. Impacts are captured by the impact materiality perspective irrespective of
whether or not they are financially material.
39. In identifying and assessing the impacts, risks and opportunities in the undertaking’s value chain to determine their
materiality , the undertaking shall focus on areas where impacts, risks and opportunities are deemed likely to arise,
based on the nature of the activities, business relationships, geographies or other factors concerned.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 10 of 284 ---