File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 20 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 18/284101. Corrections of errors are distinguished from changes in estimates. Estimates may need to be revised as additional
information becomes known (see ESRS 2 BP-2).
7.6 Consolidated reporting and subsidiary exemption
102. When the undertaking is reporting at a consolidated level, it shall perform its assessment of material impacts, risks
and opportunities for the entire consolidated group, regardless of its group legal structure. It shall ensure that all
subsidiaries are covered in a way that allows for the unbiased identification of material impacts, risks and opportunities. Criteria and thresholds for assessing an impact, risk or opportunity as material shall be determined
based on chapter 3 of this Standard.
103. Where the undertaking identifies significant differences between material impacts, risks or opportunities at group
level and material impacts, risks or opportunities of one or more of its subsidiaries, the undertaking shall provide an
adequate description of the impacts, risks and opportunities, as appropriate, of the subsidiary or subsidiaries
concerned.
104. When assessing whether the differences between material impacts, risks or opportunities at group level and material
impacts, risks or opportunities of one or more of its subsidiaries are significant, the undertaking may consider
different circumstances, such as whether the subsidiary or subsidiaries operate in a different sector than the rest of
the group or the circumstances reflected in section 3.7 Level of disaggregation.
7.7 Classified and sensitive information, and information on intellectual property, know-how or results of innovation
105. The undertaking is not required to disclose classified information or sensitive information, even if such information
is considered material.
106. When disclosing information about its strategy, plans and actions, where a specific piece of information
corresponding to intellectual property, know-how or the results of innovation is relevant to meet the objective of a
Disclosure Requirement, the undertaking may nevertheless omit that specific piece of information if it:
(a) is secret in the sense that it is not, as a body or in the precise configuration and assembly of its components,
generally known among or readily accessible to persons within the circles that normally deal with the kind of
information in question;
(b) has commercial value because it is secret; and
(c) has been subject to reasonable steps by the undertaking to keep it secret.
107. If the undertaking omits classified information or sensitive information, or a specific piece of information
corresponding to intellectual property, know-how or the results of innovation because it meets the criteria
established in the previous paragraph, it shall comply with the disclosure requirement in question by disclosing all
other required information.
108. The undertaking shall make every reasonable effort to ensure that beyond the omission of the classified information
or sensitive information, or of the specific piece of information corresponding to intellectual property, know-how or
the results of innovation, the overall relevance of the disclosure in question is not impaired.
7.8 Reporting on opportunities
109. When reporting on opportunities, the disclosure should consist of descriptive information allowing the reader to
understand the opportunity for the undertaking or the entire sector. When reporting on opportunities, the
undertaking shall consider the materiality of the information to be disclosed. In this context, it shall consider,
among other factors:
(a) whether the opportunity is currently being pursued and is incorporated in its general strategy, as opposed to a
general opportunity for the undertaking or the sector; andOJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 19 of 284 ---