File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 12 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 11/28449. A sustainability matter is material from a financial perspective if it triggers or could reasonably be expected to trigger
material financial effects on the undertaking. This is the case when a sustainability matter generates risks or
opportunities that have a material influence, or could reasonably be expected to have a material influence, on the
undertaking’s development, financial position, financial performance, cash flows, access to finance or cost of capital
over the short-, medium- or long-term. Risks and opportunities may derive from past events or future events. The
financial materiality of a sustainability matter is not constrained to matters that are within the control of the
undertaking but includes information on material risks and opportunities attributable to business relationships
beyond the scope of consolidation used in the preparation of financial statements.
50. Dependencies on natural, human and social resources can be sources of financial risks or opportunities.
Dependencies may trigger effects in two possible ways:
(a) they may influence the undertaking’s ability to continue to use or obtain the resources needed in its business
processes, as well as the quality and pricing of those resources; and
(b) they may affect the undertaking’s ability to rely on relationships needed in its business processes on acceptable terms.
51. The materiality of risks and opportunities is assessed based on a combination of the likelihood of occurrence and
the potential magnitude of the financial effects.
3.6 Material impacts or risks arising from actions to address sustainability matters
52. The undertaking’s materiality assessment may lead to the identification of situations in which its actions to address
certain impacts or risks, or to benefit from certain opportunities in relation to a sustainability matter, might have
material negative impacts or cause material risks in relation to one or more other sustainability matters. For
example:
(a) an action plan to decarbonise production that involves abandoning certain products might have material
negative impacts on the undertaking’s own workforce and result in material risks due to redundancy payments;
or
(b) an action plan of an automotive supplier to focus on the supply of e-vehicles might lead to stranded assets for the
production of supply parts for conventional vehicles.
53. In such situations, the undertaking shall:
(a) disclose the existence of material negative impacts or material risks together with the actions that generate them,
with a cross-reference to the topic to which the impacts or risks relate; and
(b) provide a description of how the material negative impacts or material risks are addressed under the topic to
which they relate.
3.7 Level of disaggregation
54. When needed for a proper understanding of its material impacts, risks and opportunities, the undertaking shall
disaggregate the reported information:
(a) by country, when there are significant variations of material impacts, risks and opportunities across countries
and when presenting the information at a higher level of aggregation would obscure material information about
impacts, risks or opportunities; or
(b) by significant site or by significant asset, when material impacts, risks and opportunities are highly dependent on
a specific location or asset.
55. When defining the appropriate level of disaggregation for reporting, the undertaking shall consider the
disaggregation adopted in its materiality assessment. Depending on the undertaking’s specific facts and
circumstances, a disaggregation by subsidiary may be necessary.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 12 of 284 ---