File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 225 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 226/284AR 7. Examples of particular characteristics of affected communities that may be considered by the undertaking when
responding to paragraph 10 may be an affected community that is physically or economically isolated and is
particularly susceptible to introduced diseases or has limited access to social services and therefore relies on
infrastructure set up by the undertaking. It may be because where land worked by women is purchased by the
undertaking and payments go to male heads of households, women become further disenfranchised in the
community. It may also be because the community is indigenous, and its members seek to exercise cultural or
economic rights to the land owned or used by the undertaking – or by one of the entities with which it has a
business relationship – in a context where their rights are not protected by the state. In addition, the undertaking shall consider whether different characteristics overlap. For example, characteristics such as ethnicity,
socioeconomic status, migrant status and gender may create overlapping risks of harm for certain affected
communities, or for distinct parts of those affected communities, since affected communities are often
heterogeneous in nature.
AR 8. With regard to paragraph 11, material risks could also arise because of the undertaking’s dependency on affected
communities where low likelihood but high impact events may trigger financial effects; for example, where a
natural disaster leads to a catastrophic industrial accident involving the undertaking’s operations, resulting in severe harm to affected communities.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S3-1 – Policies related to affected communities
AR 9. The description shall include the key information necessary to ensure a faithful representation of the policies in
relation to affected communities and, therefore, the undertaking shall consider explanations of significant
changes to the policies adopted during the reporting year (for example, new or additional approaches to
engagement, due diligence and remedy).
AR 10. When disclosing the alignment of its policies with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the
undertaking shall consider that the Guiding Principles refer to the International Bill of Rights, which consists of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the two Covenants that implement it, as well as the UN
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the International Labour Organisation’s Convention concerning
Indigenous and Tribal Peoples (ILO No. 169) and the core conventions that underpin it, and may disclose its
alignment with these instruments.
AR 11. The undertaking may provide an illustration of the types of communication of its policies to those individuals,
group of individuals or entities for whom they are relevant, either because they are expected to implement them
(for example, the undertaking’s employees , contractors and suppliers), or because they have a direct interest in
their implementation (for example, own workers, investors). It may disclose communication tools and channels
(for example, flyers, newsletters, dedicated websites, social media, face to face interactions, workers’
representatives), aimed at ensuring that the policy is accessible and that different audiences understand its
implications. The undertaking may also explain how it identifies and removes potential barriers for dissemination,
such as through translation into relevant languages or the use of graphic depictions.
AR 12. When disclosing severe human rights issues and incidents connected to affected communities, the undertaking
shall consider any legal disputes related to land rights and to the free, prior and informed consent of indigenous
peoples.
Disclosure Requirement S3-2 – Processes for engaging with affected communities about impacts
AR 13. Explanations of how the undertaking takes into account and ensures respect of the right of indigenous peoples to
free, prior and informed consent may include information about processes to consult with indigenous peoples to
obtain such consent. The undertaking shall consider how the consultation includes a good faith negotiation with affected indigenous peoples to obtain their free, prior and informed consent where the undertaking affects the
lands, territories or resources that indigenous peoples customarily own, occupy or otherwise use; or relocates
them from land or territories subject to traditional ownership or under customary use or occupation; or affects or