File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:25
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 9 of 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(20) To ensure the reliability , consist ency and compara bility of sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services
sector , disclosures pursuant to this Regulation should use existing sustainability indicators to the exte nt feasible as
proposed by the European Parliament in its resolution of 29 May 2018 on sustainable finance (7). In that cont ext,
the technical screening criteria should, to the extent feasible, be based on the sustainability indicators refer red to in
Regulation (EU) 2019/2088.
(21) Regarding economic activities carried out by under takings that are not required to disclose information under this
Regulation, there could be excep tional cases where financial mark et participants cannot reasonably obtain the
relevant information to reliably determine the alignment with the technical screening criteria established pursuant
to this Regulation. In such excep tional cases and only for those economic activities for which complet e, reliable and
timely information could not be obtained, financial market participants should be allowed to make compl ementar y
assessments and estimates on the basis of information from other sources. Such assessments and estimat es should
only compe nsate for limited and specifi c parts of the desired data elements, and produce a prudent outcome. In
order to ensure that the disclosure to investors is clear and not misleading, financia l mark et participants should
clearly explain the basis for their conclusions as well as the reasons for having to make such compl ementar y
assessments and estimat es for the purposes of disclosure to end invest ors.
(22) In its communication of 20 June 2019 on ‘Guidelines on non-fi nancial repor ting: Supplement on repor ting climat e-
relat ed information’, the Commission recommends that certain large compan ies repor t on certain climat e-related
key performa nce indicators (KPIs) that are based on the framew ork established by this Regulation. In particular ,
information on the propor tion of the turnover , capital expenditure (CapEx) or operating expenditure (OpEx) of
such large non-fi nancial companies that is associated with environmentally sustainable economic activities, as well
as KPIs that are tailored for large financial compan ies, is useful to investors who are interested in compan ies whose
products and services contr ibut e substantially to any one of the environmental objectives set out in this Regulation.
It is theref ore appropr iate to require the annual publication of such KPIs by such large compan ies and to further
define that requirement in delegat ed acts, in particular with regard to large financial compan ies. While it would be
dispropor tionat ely burdensome to extend such a requirement to smaller companies, smaller companies may
volun tarily decide to publish such information.
(23) For the purpose of deter mining the environmental sustainability of a given economic activity , an exhaustive list of
environmental objectives should be laid down . The six envi ronmental objectives that this Regulation should cover
are: climat e chang e mitig ation; climat e change adapt ation; the sustainable use and protect ion of water and mar ine
resources; the transition to a circular economy ; pollution prevention and control; and the protection and
restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems.
(24) An economic activity that pursues the environmental objective of climat e chang e mitig ation should contr ibute
substantially to the stabilisation of greenhouse gas emissions by avoiding or reducing them or by enhancing
greenhouse gas remo vals. The economic activity should be consist ent with the long-t erm temperature goal of the
Paris Agreement. That envi ronmental objective should be interpreted in accordance with relevant Union law,
including Directive 2009/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (8).
(25) An economic activity that pursues the environmental objective of climat e chang e adap tation should contr ibute
substantially to reducing or preventing the adverse impact of the current or expect ed future climat e, or the risks of
such adverse impa ct, whether on that activity itself or on people, nature or assets. That envi ronmental objective
should be interpr eted in accordance with relevant Union law and the Sendai Framew ork for Disaster Risk Reduction
2015–2030.
(7)OJ C 76, 9.3.2020, p. 23.