File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 185 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 186/284AR 35. Given that material negative impacts affecting its own workforce that have occurred during the reporting period
may also be connected with other entities or operations outside its direct control, the undertaking may disclose
whether and how it seeks to use its leverage in its business relationships to manage those impacts. This may
include using commercial leverage (for example, enforcing contractual requirements with business relationships
or implementing incentives), other forms of leverage within the relationship (such as providing training or
capacity-building on workers’ rights to entities with which the undertaking has a business relationship) or
collaborative leverage with peers or other actors (such as initiatives aimed at responsible recruitment or ensuring
workers receive an adequate wage).
AR 36. When the undertaking discloses its participation in an industry or multi-stakeholder initiative as part of its
actions to address material negative impacts, the undertaking may disclose how the initiative, and its own
involvement, is aiming to address the material impact concerned. It may report under ESRS S1-5 the relevant
targets set by the initiative and progress towards them.
AR 37. When disclosing whether and how the undertaking considers actual and potential impacts on its own workforce
in decisions to terminate business relationships and whether and how it seeks to address any negative impacts
that may result from termination, the undertaking may include examples.
AR 38. Processes used to track the effectiveness of actions can include internal or external auditing or verification, court
proceedings and/or related court decisions, impact assessments, measurement systems, stakeholder feedback,
grievance mechanisms, external performance ratings, and benchmarking.
AR 39. Reporting on effectiveness is aimed at enabling the understanding of the links between actions taken by an undertaking and the effective management of impacts. Additional information that the undertaking may provide
includes data showing a decrease in the number of incidents identified.
AR 40. With regard to initiatives or processes whose primary aim is to deliver positive impacts for people in the undertaking’s own workforce that are based on their needs, and with regard to progress in the implementation
of such initiatives or processes, the undertaking may disclose:
(a) information about whether and how people in its own workforce and workers’ representatives play a role in
decisions regarding the design and implementation of these programmes or processes; and
(b) information about the intended or achieved positive outcomes for the undertaking’s own workforce of these programmes or processes.
AR 41. The undertaking may explain whether any such initiatives are designed also to support the achievement of one or more Sustainable Development Goals. For example, an undertaking committing to SDG 8 to “promote sustained,
inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all” may be
actively working towards eliminating forced labour or compulsory labour or supporting higher levels of
productivity on activities in developing countries through technological upgrades and training of local labour,
which can benefit both the specific people in its own workforce targeted by the actions, and also their local
communities.
AR 42. When disclosing the intended or achieved positive outcomes of its actions for the undertaking’s own workforce, a
distinction is to be made between evidence of certain activities having occurred (for example, that x number of
people have received financial literacy training) from evidence of actual outcomes for the people concerned (for
example, that x people report that they are able to better manage their pay and their household budgets).
AR 43. If the undertaking has taken measures to mitigate negative impacts on its own workforce that arise from the
transition to a greener, climate-neutral economy, such as training and reskilling, employment guarantees, and in
the case of downscaling or mass dismissal, measures such as job counselling, coaching, intra-company
placements and early retirement plans, the undertaking shall disclose those measures. This includes measures to OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 187 of 284 ---