File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:14
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 551 of 686
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 230/284AR 34. With regard to initiatives or processes whose primary aim is to deliver positive impacts for affected communities
that are based on affected communities’ needs, and with regard to progress in the implementation of such
initiatives or processes, the undertaking may disclose:
(a) information about whether and how affected communities and legitimate representatives or their credible
proxies play a role in decisions regarding the design and implementation of these investments or
programmes; and
(b) information about the intended or achieved positive outcomes for affected communities of these investments
or programmes.
(c) an explanation of the approximate scope of affected communities covered by the described social investment
or development programmes, and, where applicable, the rationale for why selected communities were chosen
for a given social investment or development programme's implementation.
AR 35. The undertaking may disclose whether any initiatives or processes whose primary aim is to deliver positive impacts for affected communities are designed also to support the achievement of one or more of the UN
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For example, through a commitment to advance UN SDG 5 to “achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls” the undertaking may be taking thoughtful measures to include
women in the consultation process with an affected community to meet standards of effective stakeholder
engagement, which can help empower the women in the process itself, but potentially also in their daily lives.
AR 36. When disclosing the intended or achieved positive outcomes of its actions for affected communities a distinction
is to be made between evidence of certain activities having occurred (for example, that x number of women community members have been provided with training on how to become local suppliers to the undertaking)
from evidence of actual outcomes for affected communities (for example, that x women community members have set up small businesses and have had their contracts with the undertaking renewed year-on-year).
AR 37. When disclosing whether initiatives or processes also play a role in mitigating material negative impacts, the
undertaking may for example consider programmes that aim to improve local infrastructure surrounding an
undertaking’s operations, such as improvements in roads leading to a reduction in the number of severe traffic
accidents involving community members.
AR 38. When disclosing the material risks and opportunities related to the undertaking’s impacts or dependencies on
affected communities, the undertaking may consider the following:
(a) risks related to the undertaking’s impacts on affected communities may include the reputational or legal