File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:25
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 30 of 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 12 of 31 ---

Agen cy, the ESA s, the European Investment Bank and the European Union Agen cy for Fundamental Rights. Private
sector exper ts should include representatives of financial and non-fi nancial mark et participants and business
sector s, representing relevant industr ies, and persons with accounting and repor ting exper tise. The Platf orm should
also include exper ts representing civil society , including exper ts in the field of environmental, social, labour and
governance issues. Financial mark et participants should be encourage d to inform the Commission if they consider
that an economic activity that does not meet the technical screening criteria, or for whic h such criteria have not yet
been established, should qualify as environmentally sustainable, in order to help the Commission in evaluating the
appropr iateness of compl ementing or updating the technical screening criteria.
(51) The Platf orm should be constitut ed in accordance with the applicable horizontal rules on the creation and operation
of Commission exper t groups, including with regard to the selection process. The selection process should aim to
ensure a high level of exper tise, geographical and gender balance, as well as a balanced representation of relevant
know-ho w, taking into account the specif ic tasks of the Platf orm. Dur ing the selection process, the Commission
should perform an assessment in accordance with those horizontal rules to determine whether poten tial conf licts
of interest exist and should take appropr iate measures to resolve any such conf licts.
(52) The Platf orm should advise the Commission on the development, analysis and review of technical screening criteria,
including the poten tial impact of such criteria on the valuation of assets that qualify as environmentally sustainable
assets under existing mark et practices. The Platf orm should also advise the Commission on whether the technical
screening criteria are suitable for use in future Union policy initiatives aimed at facilitating sustainable investment
and on the possible role of sustainability accounting and repor ting standards in suppor ting the application of the
technical screening criteria. The Platf orm should advise the Commission on developing further measures to
imp rove data availability and quality , taking into account the objective of avoiding undue administrative burden, on
addressing other sustainability objectives, including social objectives, and on the functioning of minimum safeg uards
and the possible need to supplement them.
(53) The Commission should continue the existing Member State Exper t Group on Sustainable Finance and provid e it
with a formal status. The tasks of that exper t group will, inter alia, consist of advising the Commission on the
appropr iateness of the technical screening criteria and the approach taken by the Platf orm with regar d to
developing those criteria. For that purpose, the Commission should keep the Member State s informed through
regular meetings of the Member State Exper t Group on Sustainable Finance.
(54) In order to specify the requirements set out in this Regulation, and in particular to establish and update for diffe rent
economic activities granular and calibrated technical screening criteria for what constitutes ‘substantial contr ibution’
and ‘significant harm’ to the environmental objectives, the power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 TFEU
should be delegat ed to the Commission in respect of the information required to compl y with the disclosure
oblig ations pursuant to this Regulation, and in respect of the technical screening criteria. It is of particular
imp ortance that the Commission carry out appropr iate consultations during its preparatory work, including at
exper t level, such as through the Platf orm and the Member State Exper t Group on Sustainable Finance, and that
those consultations be conduct ed in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of
13 Apr il 2016 on Bett er Law-Making (64). In particular , to ensure equal participation in the preparation of delegat ed
acts, the European Parliament and the Council receive all documents at the same time as Member States’ exper ts, and
their exper ts system atically have access to meetings of Commission exper t groups dealing with the preparation of
delegat ed acts.
(64)OJ L 123, 12.5.2016, p. 1. EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Union L 198/24                                                                                                                                         22.6.2020