File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 179 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 181/284Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction
with strategy and business model
AR 6. Impacts on the undertaking’s own workforce can originate in its strategy or business model in a number of
different ways. For example, impacts may relate to the undertaking’s value proposition (such as providing lowest
cost products or services, or high-speed delivery, in ways that put pressure on labour rights in its own
operations), or its cost structure and the revenue model (such as shifting inventory risk to suppliers, with
knock-on effects on the labour rights of people who work for them).
AR 7. Impacts on the undertaking’s own workforce that originate in the strategy or business model can also bring
material risks to the undertaking. For example, risks arise if some people in the workforce are at risk of forced
labour , and the undertaking is importing products into countries where the law allows for the confiscation of
imported goods that are suspected of being made with forced labour. An example of opportunities for the
undertaking may result from providing opportunities for the workforce such as job creation and upskilling in the context of a “just transition”. Another example, in the context of a pandemic or other severe health crisis,
relates to the undertaking potentially relying on contingent labour with little to no access to sick care and health
benefits that may face severe operational and business continuity risks as workers have no choice but to keep
working while sick, further exacerbating the spread of the disease and causing major supply chain breakdowns.
Reputational and business opportunity risks linked to the exploitation of low-skilled, low-paid workers in
sourcing geographies with minimal protections for them are also increasing with media backlash and consumer
preferences moving to more ethically sourced or sustainable goods.
AR 8. Examples of particular characteristics of people in the undertaking’s own workforce that may be considered by
the undertaking when responding to paragraph 15 relate to young people that may be more susceptible to
impacts on their physical and mental development, or women in a context where women are routinely
discriminated against in the terms and conditions of work, or migrants in a context where the market for the supply of labour is poorly regulated and workers are routinely charged recruitment fees. For some people in the
workforce, the inherent nature of the activity that they are required to undertake may put them at risk (for
example, people required to handle chemicals or operate certain equipment or low paid employees who are on
“zero hours” contracts).
AR 9. With regard to paragraph 16, material risks could also arise because of the undertaking’s dependency on its own
workforce where low-likelihood but high-impact events may trigger financial effects; for example, where a global
pandemic leads to severe health impacts on the undertaking’s workforce resulting in major disruptions to
production and distribution. Other examples of risk related to the undertaking’s dependency on its workforce
include a shortage in skilled workers or political decisions or legislation affecting its own operations and own
workforce.
Impacts, risks and opportunities management
Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce
AR 10. The undertaking shall consider whether explanations of significant changes to the policies adopted during the
reporting year (for example, new expectations for foreign subsidiaries, new or additional approaches to due
diligence and remedy) provide contextual information for users and may disclose such explanations. This
includes policies and commitments of the undertaking to prevent or mitigate the risks and negative impacts on
people in its own workforce of reducing carbon emissions and transitioning to greener and climate-neutral
operations as well as to provide opportunities for the workforce such as job creation and upskilling, including
explicit commitments to a ‘just transition’.
AR 11. The policy may take the form of a stand-alone policy regarding the undertaking’s own workforce or be included