File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 35 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Theref ore, an under taking would be compl iant with the sustainability repor ting requirements of Directive
2013/34/EU by repor ting in accordance with the sustainability repor ting standards. When defining such standards,
it is essential to give due consideration, to the greatest extent possible, to the main sustainability repor ting standards
used worldwide, while not lowering the ambition of this amending Directive and delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant
thereto.
(38) No existing standard or framewor k satisfies the Union’s needs for sustainability repor ting by itself. Information
required by Directive 2013/34/EU needs to cover information relevant from each of the mate riality perspectives,
needs to cover all sustainability matt ers and needs to be aligned, where appropr iate, with other oblig ations under
Union law to disclose sustainability information, including obligations laid down in Regulations (EU) 2019/2088
and (EU) 2020/852. In addition, mandatory sustainability repor ting standards for Union under takings should be
commensurat e with the level of ambition of the Green Deal and the Union’s objective of climate neutrality by 2050
as well as with the interm ediat e targets under Regulation (EU) 2021/1119. It is theref ore necessar y to empower the
Commission to adopt Union sustainability repor ting standards, enabling their rapid adopt ion and ensur ing that the
conte nt of those sustainability repor ting standards is consistent with the Union’s needs.
(39) The European Financial Repor ting Advisor y Group (EFRA G) is a non-profit association established under Belgian
law that serves the public interest by provid ing advice to the Commission on the endorsement of international
financial repor ting standards. EFRA G has established a reputation as a European centre of exper tise on corporat e
repor ting and is well placed to foster coordination between Union sustainability repor ting standards and
internati onal initiatives that seek to develop standards that are consistent across the world. In March 2021, a multi-
stake holder task force set up by EFRA G published recommendations for the possible development of sustainability
repor ting standards for the Union. Those recommendations contain proposals to develop a coherent and
compreh ensive set of sustainability repor ting standards, cover ing all sustainability matte rs from a double mater iality
perspective. Those recommendations also contain a detailed roadmap for developing such standards, and proposals
for mutually reinf orcing cooperation between global standard-setting initiatives and standard-setting initiatives of
the Union. In March 2021, the EFRA G Board President published recommendations for possible govern ance
changes to EFRA G in the event that it were to be asked to develop technical advice about sustainability repor ting
standards. The EFRA G Board President’s recommendations include the setting up of a new sustainability repor ting
pillar within EFRA G, while not signif icantly modifying the existing financial repor ting pillar . In Marc h 2022, the
EFRA G General Assembly appointe d the members of the newly creat ed EFRA G Sustainability Repor ting Board.
When adop ting sustainability repor ting standards, the Commission should take account of technical advice that
EFRA G will develop.
In order to ensure high-quality standards that contr ibut e to the European public good and meet the needs of
under takings and of users of the information repor ted, EFRA G should have sufficient public funding to ensure its
independence. Its technical advice should be developed with proper due process, public oversight and transparency ,
and based on the exper tise of a balanced representation of relevant stak eholders, including under takings, invest ors,
civil society organisations and trade unions, and should be accompanied by cost-benefi t analyses. Participation in
EFRA G’s work at technical level should be conditional on exper tise in sustainability repor ting and should not be
conditional on any financial contr ibution, without prejudice to the participation of public bodies and national
standard-setting organisations in that work. A transparent process avoiding conf licts of interest should be
guarant eed. To ensure that Union sustainability repor ting standards take account of the views of the Member State s,
before adopting those standards the Commission should consult the Member State Exper t Group on Sustainable