File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 16 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 14 of 284 ---

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 14/284(b) in accordance with any specific requirements related to the value chain in other ESRS.
64. Paragraph 63 does not require information on each and every actor in the value chain, but only the inclusion of
material upstream and downstream value chain information. Different sustainability matters can be material in
relation to different parts of the undertaking’s upstream and downstream value chain. The information shall be
extended to include value chain information only in relation to the parts of the value chain for which the matter is
material.
65. The undertaking shall include material value chain information when this is necessary to:
(a) allow users of sustainability statements to understand the undertaking’s material impacts, risks and
opportunities; and/or
(b) produce a set of information that meets the qualitative characteristics of information (see Appendix B of this Standard).
66. When determining at which level within its own operations and its upstream and downstream value chain a material
sustainability matter arises, the undertaking shall use its assessment of impacts, risks and opportunities following the
double materiality principle (see chapter 3 of this Standard).
67. When associates or joint ventures, accounted for under the equity method or proportionally consolidated in the
financial statements, are part of the undertaking’s value chain, for example as suppliers, the undertaking shall
include information related to those associates or joint ventures in accordance with paragraph 63 consistent with
the approach adopted for the other business relationships in the value chain. In this case, when determining impact
metrics, the data of the associate or joint venture are not limited to the share of equity held, but shall be taken into
account on the basis of the impacts that are connected with the undertaking’s products and services through its
business relationships.
5.2 Estimation using sector averages and proxies
68. The undertaking’s ability to obtain the necessary upstream and downstream value chain information may vary
depending on various factors, such as the undertaking’s contractual arrangements, the level of control that it exercises on the operations outside the consolidation scope and its buying power. When the undertaking does not
have the ability to control the activities of its upstream and/or downstream value chain and its business
relationships, obtaining value chain information may be more challenging.
69. There are circumstances where the undertaking cannot collect the information about its upstream and downstream
value chain as required by paragraph 63 after making reasonable efforts to do so. In these circumstances, the
undertaking shall estimate the information to be reported about its upstream and downstream value chain, by using all reasonable and supportable information, such as sector-average data and other proxies.
70. Obtaining value chain information could also be challenging in the case of SMEs and other upstream and/or
downstream value chain entities that are not in the scope of the sustainability reporting required by Articles 19a
and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU (see ESRS 2 BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances).
71. With reference to policies, actions and targets, the undertaking’s reporting shall include upstream and/or
downstream value chain information to the extent that those policies, actions and targets involve actors in the value
chain. With reference to metrics, in many cases, in particular for environmental matters for which proxies are
available, the undertaking may be able to comply with the reporting requirements without collecting data from the
actors in its upstream and downstream value chain, especially from SMEs, for example, when calculating the
undertaking’s GHG Scope 3 emissions.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 15 of 284 ---