File Name: 1_2021-07-06_DelVO_2021_2178_TAXORA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:32
Original Size: 10.30 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 34 of 47
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the case of investees that are insurance or reinsurance undertakings, the benchmark shall be investments, gross
premiums written or, as applicable, total insurance revenue, as resulting from the calculation either of the turnover-based
and CapEx based investment KPI or of the underwriting KPI of the investee in accordance with Annexes XI and X to this
Regulation.
The denominator shall be the total gross carrying amount of loans and advances, debt securities and equity holdings of
relevant accounting portfolios in financial undertakings.
1.2.1.3. Green asset ratio for retail exposures
GAR for retail exposures to residential real estate or house renovation loans shall be calculated as a proportion of loans to
households collateralised by residential immovable property or granted for house renovation purposes that is taxonomy-
aligned in accordance with the technical screening criteria for buildings, namely renovation and acquisition and ownership
in accordance with points 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, and 7.7 respectively, of Annex I to Climate Delegated Act, compared to
total loans to households collateralised by residential immovable property or granted for house renovation purposes. This
GAR shall include disclosures of transitional activities, and disclosures of stock and flow. This GAR shall apply only to
investments relevant for climate change mitigation.
GAR for retail exposures to credit consumption loans for car loans shall be calculated as the proportion of loans financing
cars complying with the technical screening criteria as laid down in Section 6.5 of Annex I to Climate Delegated Act. This
GAR shall include disclosures of transitional activities, and disclosures of stock of loans only for loans granted after [the
date of application of this Regulation] and flow of loans. This GAR shall apply only to investments relevant for climate change mitigation.
KPIs on retail exposures financing taxonomy-aligned economic activities shall only apply for the objective of climate
change mitigation.
(i) Residential real estate lending
Credit institutions’ KPI disclosure shall cover the retail lending portfolio, in particular the mortgage lending portfolio. This
KPI shall be disclosed by taking into account compliance with the technical screening criteria for buildings as laid down in
Sections 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6 and 7.7 of Annex I to Climate Delegated Act.
Credit institutions shall disclose the KPI for their residential real estate lending portfolio as a proportion of loans to
households collateralised by residential immovable property contributing to the environmental objective of climate change mitigation as laid down Sections 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6 and 7.7 of Annex I to Climate Delegated Act, compared to total loans
to households collateralised by residential immovable property.
Credit institutions shall disclose information for the stock of loans as of the disclosure reference date, and information on
the flows of new lending during the disclosure period.
The numerator of the ratio shall include the gross carrying amount of residential real estate loans compliant with the
technical screening criteria in Section 7.7 of Annex I to Climate Delegated Act.
In the numerator of the ratio credit institutions shall also consider those loans granted for the renovation of a building or of
a house in accordance with the technical screening criteria for buildings in accordance with Section 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5
and 7.6 of Annex I to Climate Delegated Act.
The denominator shall include the total gross carrying amount of loans to households collateralised by residential property
plus the total gross carrying amount of house renovation loans to households, avoiding double counting of loans in case
that the latter are collateralised loans.
(ii) Retail – Credits consumptions loans for cars
Credit institutions shall disclose a KPI for loans granted to households for the acquisition of a motor vehicle (car loans). A
KPI shall be the proportion of loans associated with cars complying with the technical screening criteria in accordance
with Section 6.5 of Annex I to Climate Delegated Act.
Credit institutions shall consider those car loans granted from the date of application of the disclosure requirements, both
for the KPI on stock and on new loans. Update on the stock of loans granted before the application date shall not be