File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:25
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 2 of 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(5) In December 2016, the Commission mandated a High-Level Exper t Group to develop an overarching and
compreh ensive Union strateg y on sustainable finance. The repor t of the High-Level Exper t Group published on
31 Januar y 2018 calls for the creation of a technically robust classif ication system at Union level to establish clarity
on which activities qualify as ‘green’ or ‘sustainable ’, starting with climat e chang e mitig ation.
(6) In its communication of 8 March 2018, the Commission published its action plan on financing sustainable growth,
launching an ambitious and compre hensive strategy on sustainable finance. One of the objectives set out in that
action plan is to reor ient capital flows towards sustainable investment in order to achi eve sustainable and inclusive
growth. The establishment of a unified classification system for sustainable activities is the most important and
urgent action envisaged by the action plan. The action plan recognises that the shift of capital flows towards more
sustainable activities has to be under pinned by a shared, holistic understanding of the environmental sustainability
of activities and investments. As a first step, clear guidance on activities that qualify as contr ibuting to
environmental objectives would help inform investor s about the investments that fund environmentally sustainable
economic activities. Further guidance on activities that contr ibute to other sustainability objectives, including social
objectives, might be developed at a later stage.
(7) Given the systemic nature of global environmental challenges, there is a need for a systemic and forward-looking
approach to environmental sustainability that addresses growing nega tive trends, such as climat e change, the loss of
biodiversity , the global overconsump tion of resources, food scarcity , ozone depletion, ocean acidification, the
deterioration of the fresh water system, and land system chang e as well as the appearance of new threats, such as
hazardous chemicals and their combined effects.
(8) Decision No 1386/2013/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (4) calls for an increase in private sector
funding for environmental and climat e-related expenditure, in particular by putting in place incentives and
methodologies that stimulate companies to measure the environmental costs of their business and prof its derived
from using environmental services.
(9) Achieving the SDGs in the Union requires the channelling of capital flows towards sustainable investments. It is
imp ortant to fully exploit the poten tial of the internal mark et to achi eve those goals. In that context, it is crucial to
remo ve obstacles to the efficient movement of capital into sustainable inve stments in the internal mark et and to
prevent new obstacles from emerging.
(10) In view of the scale of the challenge and the costs associated with inaction or dela yed action, the financial system
should be gradually adap ted in order to suppor t the sustainable functioning of the economy . To that end,
sustainable finance needs to become mainstream and consideration needs to be given to the sustainability impact of
financial products and services.
(11) Making available financial products which pursue environmentally sustainable objectives is an effective way of
channelling private investments into sustainable activities. Requirements for marketing financial products or
corporate bonds as environmentally sustainable inve stments, including requirements set by Member States and the
Union to allow financial mark et participants and issuers to use national labels, aim to enhance investor conf idence
and aware ness of the envi ronmental impact of those financial products or corporate bonds, to create visibility and
to address concer ns about ‘greenwa shing’. In the cont ext of this Regulation, greenwashin g refers to the practice of
gain ing an unfair compet itive advantag e by marketing a financial product as environmentally friendly , when in fact
basic environmental standards have not been met. Currently , a few Member State s have labelling schemes in place.
Those existing schemes build on diffe rent classificat ion systems for envi ronmentally sustainable economic activities.
Given the political commitments under the Paris Agreement and at Union level, it is likely that more and more
Member States will establish labelling schemes or impose other requirements on financial market participants or
issuers in respect of promoting financial products or corporate bonds as environmentally sustainable. In such cases,