File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 105 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A Member State shall require that a branch locat ed in its territory, and which is a branch of an under taking govern ed
by the law of a third countr y, whic h is either not part of a group or is ultimately held by an under taking that is formed
in accordance with the law of a third countr y publish and make accessible a sustainability repor t covering the
information specifi ed in points (a)(iii) to (a)(v), points (b) to (f) and, where appropr iate, point (h) of Article 29a(2), at
the group level, or, if not applicable, the individual level, of the third-countr y under taking.
The rule refer red to in the third subparagraph shall only apply to a branch where the third-countr y under taking does
not have a subsidiar y under taking as referred to in the first subparagraph, and where the branch generat ed a net
turnover of more than EUR 40 million in the preceding financia l year .
The first and third subparagraphs shall only apply to the subsidiar y under takings or branche s refer red to in those
subparagraphs where the third-countr y under taking, at its group level, or, if not applicable, the individual level,
generated a net turnover of more than EUR 150 million in the Union for each of the last two consecutive financia l
years.
Member States may require subsidiar y under takings or branches referred to in the first and third subparagraphs to
send them information about the net turnover generat ed in their territory and in the Union by the third-countr y
under takings.
2. Member States shall require that the sustainability repor t communicated by the subsidiar y under taking or
branch as referred to in paragraph 1 is drawn up in accordance with the standards adopt ed pursuant to Article 40b.
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph of this paragraph, the sustainability repor t refer red to in paragraph
1 of this Article may be drawn up in accordance with the sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to
Article 29b or in a manner equivalent to those sustainability repor ting standards, as determined in accordance with
an implementing act on the equivalence of sustainability repor ting standards adopt ed pursuant to the third
subparagraph of Article 23(4) of Directive 2004/109/EC.
Where the information required to draw up the sustainability repor t refer red to in the first subparagraph of this
paragraph is not available, the subsidiar y under taking or branch referred to in paragraph 1 shall request the third-
countr y under taking to provide them with all information necessar y to enable them to meet their oblig ations.
In the event that not all the required information is provided, the subsidiar y under taking or branch referred to in
paragraph 1 shall draw up, publish and mak e accessible the sustainability repor t referred to in paragraph 1,
containing all information in its possession, obtained or acquired, and issue a statement indicating that the third-
countr y under taking did not make the necessar y information available.
3. Member States shall require that the sustainability repor t referred to in paragraph 1 is published accompanied
by an assurance opinion expressed by one or more person(s) or firm(s) author ised to give an opinion on the
assurance of sustainability repor ting under the national law of the third-countr y under taking or of a Member State.
In the event that the third-countr y under taking does not provide the assurance opinion in accordance with the first
subparagraph, the subsidiar y under taking or branch shall issue a statement indicating that the third-countr y
under taking did not mak e the necessar y assurance opinion available.
4. Member State s may inform the Commission on an annual basis of the subsidiar y under takings or branches of
third-countr y under takings that fulfilled the publication requirement laid down in Article 40d and of the cases where
a repor t was published but where the subsidiar y under taking or branch has acte d in accordance with the fourth
subparagraph of paragraph 2 of this Article. The Commission shall make publicly available on its website a list of the