File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:03
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 931 of 966
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By way of derogation from this point, where legal restrictions on contractual conditions and insurance premiums
prevent the insurance or reinsurance company from providing risk-based rewards, insurance products may instead
provide to customers measures in relation to an asset, an activity, or people that prevent or protect against natural
catastrophes. Such measures may be provided as information or advice to customers on climate risks and
preventive measures that customers could take.
2.2. The distribution strategy for such products covers measures to ensure that policyholders are informed on
the relevance of preventive measures that they could take, for the terms and conditions of the insurance coverage,
including any impact of such measures on the insurance coverage or the premium level.
3. Innovative insurance coverage solutions:  
3.1. Insurance products sold under the insurance activity offer coverage for the climate-related perils (  641  ) where 
the demands and needs of policyholders require so.
3.2. Depending on the demands and needs of individual customers, products may include specific risk transfer
solutions such as protection against business interruption, contingent business interruption, other non-physical
damage-related loss factors, cascading effects and interdependencies of hazards (secondary perils), cascading
impacts of interacting natural and technological hazards, critical infrastructure failures.
4. Data sharing:  
4.1. With due regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council (  642  ), a 
significant share of loss data related to insurer’s activity is made available, free of charge, to one or several public
authorities for the purpose of analytical research. Those public authorities declare to use the data for purposes of
enhancing adaptation to climate change by the society in a region, country or internationally and the insurer
provides the data at a level of granularity sufficient for the use declared by the respective public authorities.
4.2. Where the insurer is not yet sharing such data with a public authority for the aforementioned purpose, it
has declared the intention to make its data available, free of charge, to interested third parties and has indicated
under which conditions such data can be shared. That declaration of intention to share available data is easily
accessible, including on the insurer’s website, for relevant public authorities.
5. High level of service in post-disaster situation:  
Claims under insurance activity, both ongoing and those from large-scale loss events resulting from climate risks,
are processed fairly with respect to customers, in accordance with high handling standards for claims and in