File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 26 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(49)  The technical screening criteria for determining whether the economic activities that contribute substantially to 
climate change mitigation or climate change adaptation cause no significant harm to any of the other environ ­
mental objectives should aim at ensuring that contribution to one of the environmental objectives is not made at
the expense of other environmental objectives. The ‘do no significant harm’ criteria play therefore an essential role
in ensuring the environmental integrity of the classification of environmentally sustainable activities. The ‘do no
significant harm’ criteria for a given environmental objective should be specified for those activities that present a
risk of causing significant harm to that objective. The ‘do no significant harm’ criteria should take into account and
build upon the relevant requirements of existing Union law.  
(50)  The technical screening criteria for ensuring that activities that contribute substantially to climate change adap ­
tation do not cause significant harm to climate change mitigation should be laid down for those activities that
present a risk of producing significant greenhouse gas emissions while they have the potential to contribute
substantially to climate change adaptation.  
(51)  Climate change is likely to affect all sectors of the economy. The technical screening criteria for ensuring that 
economic activities that contribute substantially to climate change mitigation do not cause significant harm to
climate change adaptation should therefore apply to all of those economic activities. Those criteria should ensure
that existing and future risks that are material to the activity are identified and that adaptation solutions are
implemented to minimise or avoid possible losses or impacts on business continuity.  
(52)  The technical screening criteria for ‘do no significant harm’ to sustainable use and protection of water and marine 
resources should be specified for all activities that can pose a risk to such sustainable use and protection. Those
criteria should aim at avoiding that activities are detrimental to the good status or the good ecological potential of
bodies of water, including surface water and groundwater, or to the good environmental status of marine waters,
by requiring that environmental degradation risks are identified and addressed, in accordance with a water use and
protection management plan.  
(53)  The technical screening criteria for ‘do no significant harm’ to transition to a circular economy should be tailored 
to the specific sectors in order to ensure that economic activities do not lead to inefficiencies in the use of
resources or lock-in linear production models, that waste is avoided or reduced and, where unavoidable, managed
in accordance with the waste hierarchy. Those criteria should also ensure that economic activities do not
undermine the objective of transitioning to a circular economy.  
(54)  The technical screening criteria for ‘do no significant harm’ to pollution prevention and control should reflect 
sector specificities to address the relevant sources and types of pollution into air, water or land, referring, where
relevant, to best available techniques conclusions established under Directive 2010/75/EU of the European
Parliament and of the Council (  14 ). 
(55)  The criteria for ‘do no significant harm’ to protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems should be 
specified for all activities that can pose risks to the status or condition of habitats, species or ecosystems and
should require that, where relevant, environmental impact assessments or appropriate assessments are undertaken
and the conclusions from such assessments are implemented. Those criteria should ensure that even in the absence
of a requirement to perform an environmental impact assessment or other appropriate assessment, activities do
not lead to the disturbance, capture or killing of legally protected species or the deterioration of legally protected
habitats.  
(56)  The technical screening criteria should be without prejudice to the requirement to comply with provisions related 
to the environment, health, safety and social sustainability laid down in Union and national law, and to the
adoption of appropriate mitigation measures in that regard where applicable.  
(57)  The provisions in this Regulation are closely linked, since they deal with criteria for determining whether an 
economic activity contributes substantially to climate change mitigation or climate change adaptation, and whether
such economic activity causes no significant harm to one or more of the other environmental objectives laid down
in Article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. In order to ensure coherence between those provisions, which should