File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 238 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 237/28424. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the formal means by which consumers
and/or end-users can make their concerns and needs known directly to the undertaking, and/or through which the
undertaking supports the availability of such channels (for example, grievance mechanisms) by its business
relationships, how follow up is performed with these consumers and/or end-users regarding the issues raised, and
the effectiveness of these channels.
25. The undertaking shall describe:
(a) its general approach to and processes for providing or contributing to remedy where it has identified that it has
caused or contributed to a material negative impact on consumers and/or end-users, including whether and
how the undertaking assesses that the remedy provided is effective;
(b) any specific channels it has in place for consumers and/or end-users to raise their concerns or needs directly with
the undertaking and have them addressed, including whether these are established by the undertaking
itself and/or through participation in third-party mechanisms;
(c) the processes through which the undertaking supports or requires the availability of such channels by its business
relationships; and
(d) how it tracks and monitors issues raised and addressed, and how it ensures the effectiveness of the channels,
including through involvement of stakeholders who are the intended users.
26. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it assesses that consumers and/or end-users are aware of and trust
these structures or processes as a way to raise their concerns or needs and have them addressed. In addition, the
undertaking shall disclose whether it has policies in place to protect individuals from retaliation when they use such
structures or processes. If such information has been disclosed in accordance with ESRS G1-1, the undertaking may
refer to that information.
27. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted a channel for raising
concerns and/or does not support the availability of mechanisms by its business relationships, it shall disclose this to
be the case. It may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to have such a channel or processes in place.
Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end- users, and approaches to
managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of
those actions
28. The undertaking shall disclose how it takes action to address material impacts on consumers and end-users,
and to manage material risks and pursue material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and
effectiveness of those actions.
29. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is twofold. Firstly, it is to provide an understanding of any actions and
initiatives through which the undertaking seeks to:
(a) prevent, mitigate and remediate the negative material impacts on consumers and/or end-users, and/or
(b) achieve positive material impacts for consumers and/or end-users.
Secondly, it is to enable an understanding of the ways in which the undertaking is addressing the material risks and
pursuing the material opportunities related to consumers and/or end-users.
30. The undertaking shall provide a summarised description of the action plans and resources to manage its material
impacts, risks, and opportunities related to consumers and end-users as per ESRS 2 MDR-A Actions and resources in
relation to material sustainability matters.
31. In relation to material impacts, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) actions taken, planned or underway to prevent, mitigate or remediate material negative impacts on consumers
and/or end-users;OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 238 of 284 ---