File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 47 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Conv ention on the Rights of the Child, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the
fundamental conventions of the ILO, the European Conv ention for the Protection of Human Rights and
Fundamental Freedoms, the European Social Char ter, and the Char ter of Fundamental Rights of the European
Union. Repor ting carried out on social factors, as well as on envi ronmental and govern ance factors, should be
propor tionat e to the scope and the goals of this amending Directive. Sustainability repor ting standards that address
gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value should specify , amongst other things, information to be
repor ted about the gender pay gap, taking account of other relevant Union law. Sustainability repor ting standards
that address employment and inclusion of people with disabilities should specify , amongst other things,
information to be repor ted about accessibility measures taken by the under taking.
Sustainability repor ting standards that address training and skills development should specify , amongst other things,
information to be repor ted about the propor tion and breakdown of workers participating in training. Sustainability
repor ting standards that address collective bargaining should specify , amongst other things, information to be
disclosed about the existen ce of works councils as well as the existen ce of collective agreements and the propor tion
of work ers covered by such agreements. Sustainability repor ting standards that address participation of worke rs
should specify , amongst other things, information to be disclosed about the participation of work ers in
administrative and super visor y boards. Sustainability repor ting standards that address diversity should specify ,
amongst other things, information to be repor ted on gender diversity at top management and the number of
members of the under -represented sex on their boards.
(50) Users need information about govern ance factors. Gov ernance factors that are most relevant to users are liste d by
author itative repor ting frameworks such as the Global Repor ting Initiative and the Task Force on Climate-r elated
Financial Disclosures, as well as by author itative global framewor ks such as the Global Gover nance Principles of the
Internatio nal Corporate Gov ernance Networ k and the G20/OECD Principles of Corporat e Gover nance.
Sustainability repor ting standards should specify the information that under takings should disclose on govern ance
factors. Such information should cover the role of an under taking’s administrative, manag ement and super visor y
bodies with regard to sustainability matters, the exper tise and skills needed to fulfil that role or the access such
bodies have to such exper tise and skills, whether the compan y has a policy in terms of incentives which are offered
to members of those bodies and whic h are linke d to sustainability matt ers, and information on an under taking’s
internal control and risk manag ement system s in relation to the sustainability repor ting process. Users also need
information about under takings’ corporate culture and approach to business ethics, whic h are recognised elements
of author itative framewor ks on corporat e governance , such as the Global Gov ernance Principles of the
Internatio nal Corporat e Govern ance Network, including information about anti-cor ruption and anti-br iber y, and
about the under taking’s activities and commitments aimed at exer ting its political influence, including its lobb ying
activities.
Information about the management of the under taking and the quality of relationships with customer s, suppliers
and communities affected by the activities of the under taking, helps users to understand an under taking’s risks and
imp acts relat ed to sustainability matters. Information about relationships with suppliers includes payment practices
relating to the date or period for payment, the rate of interest for late payment or the compen sation for recovery
costs referred to in Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (31). Ever y year, thousands
of businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (‘SMEs’ ), suffe r an administrative and financial burden
because they are paid late, or not at all. Ultimat ely, late payments lead to insolvency and bankr uptcy , with
destr uctive effects on entire value chains. Increasing the amount of information about payment practices should