File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 44 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(46) It should be ensured that the information repor ted by under takings in accordance with the sustainability repor ting
standards meets the needs of users and does not place a dispropor tionat e burden in term s of effort and cost on the
repor ting under takings and those that are indirectly affected as part of the value chain of those under takings. The
sustainability repor ting standards should theref ore specify the information that under takings are to disclose on all
major environmental factors, including their impacts and dependencies on climat e, air, land, water and biodiversity .
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 provid es a classificat ion of the environmental objectives of the Union.
For reasons of coherence, it is appropr iate to use a similar classification to identify the environmental factors that
should be addressed by sustainability repor ting standards. The sustainability repor ting standards should consider
and specify any geographical or other conte xtual information that under takings should disclose to provi de an
understanding of their principal impa cts on sustainability matt ers and the principal risks to the under taking arising
from sustainability matt ers. When specifying the information about environmental factors that under takings are to
disclose, coherence should be ensured with the definitions laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 and
the repor ting requirements laid down in Article 8 of that Regulation and in the delegat ed acts adopt ed pursuant to
that Regulation.
(47) With regard to climat e-related information, users are interested in knowing about under takings’ physical and
transition risks, and about their resilience as regards, and plans to adap t to, differ ent climate scenar ios and plans to
adapt to the Union’s objective of climat e neutrality by 2050. They are also interest ed in the level and scope of GHG
emissions and removals attributed to the under taking, including the extent to whic h the under taking uses offsets
and the source of those offsets. Achieving a climat e neutral econom y requires the alignment of GHG accounting
and offsetting standards. Users need reliable information regar ding offsets that addresses concer ns regarding
possible double counting and overestimations, given the risks to the achi evement of climate -related targets that
double counting and overestimations can creat e. Users are also interested to know the efforts made by compan ies to
effectively reduce absolute GHG emissions as part of their climate mitigation and adaptation strategies, including
scope 1, scope 2 and, where relevant, scope 3 emissions.
With regard to scope 3 emissions, a priority for users is to receive information about whic h scope 3 catego ries are
signif icant in the case of the under taking, and about the emissions in each of those scope 3 catego ries. The
sustainability repor ting standards should theref ore specify the information under takings should repor t with regar d
to such matters.
(48) Achieving a climat e-neutral and circular economy without diffuse pollution requires the full mobilisation of all
economic sectors. Reducing energy use and increasing energy efficiency is key in this respect, as energy is used
across supply chains. Energy aspects should theref ore be duly considered in sustainability repor ting standards, in
particular in relation to envi ronmental matte rs, including climat e-related matt ers.
(49) Sustainability repor ting standards should specify the information that under takings should disclose on social factors,
including working conditions, social partner involvement, collective bargaining, equality , non-discr imination,
diversity and inclusion, and human rights. Such information should cover the impacts of the under taking on
people, including workers, and on human health. The information that under takings disclose about human rights
should include information about forced labour and child labour in their value chains where relevant. Sustainability
repor ting requirements concer ning forced labour should not free public author ities of their responsibility to address,
through trade policy and diplomatic means, the import of goods produced as a result of human rights abuses,
including forced labour . Under takings should also be able to repor t on possible risks and trends regarding
emplo yment and incomes.
Sustainability repor ting standards that address social factors should specify the information that under takings