File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 213 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 213/284AR 20. To illustrate how the perspectives of value chain workers have informed specific decisions or activities of the
undertaking, the undertaking may provide examples from the current reporting period.
Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise
concerns
AR 21. In fulfilling the requirements set out by Disclosure Requirement ESRS S2-3, the undertaking may be guided by the
content of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises focused on remediation and grievance mechanisms.
AR 22. Channels for raising concerns or needs include grievance mechanisms, hotlines, trade unions (where workers are
unionised), dialogue processes or other means through which value chain workers or their legitimate
representatives can raise concerns about impacts or explain needs that they would like the undertaking to
address. This could include both channels provided by the undertaking directly and channels provided by the
entities where the value chain workers are working, in addition to any other mechanisms the undertaking may use to gain insight into the management of impacts on workers, such as compliance audits. Where the undertaking is
relying solely on information about the existence of such channels provided by its business relationships to
answer this requirement, it may state that.
AR 23. To provide greater insight into the information covered in Disclosure Requirement ESRS S2-3, the undertaking may explain whether and how value chain workers that may be affected are able to access channels at the level of
the undertaking they are employed by, or contracted to work for, in relation to each material impact.
AR 24. Third party mechanisms could include those operated by the government, NGOs, industry associations and other
collaborative initiatives. The undertaking may disclose whether these are accessible to all workers who may be
potentially or actually materially impacted by the undertaking, or individuals or organisations acting on their
behalf or who are otherwise in a position to be aware of negative impacts.
AR 25. In relation to the protection of individuals that use the mechanisms against the retaliation, the undertaking may
describe whether it treats grievances confidentially and with respect to the rights of privacy and data protection;
and whether the mechanisms allow for workers to use them anonymously (for example, through representation by a third party).
AR 26. In disclosing whether and how the undertaking knows that value chain workers are aware of and trust any of these
channels, the undertaking may provide relevant and reliable data about the effectiveness of these channels from the perspective of value chain workers themselves. Examples of sources of information are surveys of workers that
have used such channels and their levels of satisfaction with the process and outcomes.
AR 27. In describing the effectiveness of channels for value chain workers to raise concerns, the undertaking may be
guided by the following questions, based on the “effectiveness criteria for non-judicial grievance mechanisms”, as
laid out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, in particular Principle 31. The below
considerations may be applied to individual channels or to a collective system of channels:
(a) do the channels hold legitimacy by providing appropriate accountability for their fair conduct and building stakeholder trust?
(b) are the channels known and accessible to stakeholders?
(c) do the channels have clear and known procedures, with indicative timeframes?
(d) do the channels ensure reasonable access for stakeholders to sources of information, advice and expertise?
(e) do the channels offer transparency by providing sufficient information both to complainants and, where
applicable, to meet any public interest?OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 214 of 284 ---