File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:25
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 4 of 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 3 of 31 ---

inve stments qualify as sustainable. If those national labelling schem es or requirements use differ ent criteria to
determine which economic activities qualify as environmentally sustainable, investors would be discourag ed from
inve sting across borders due to difficulties in compari ng different investment oppor tunities. In addition, economic
operat ors that wish to attract investment from across the Union would have to meet different criteria in different
Member States in order for their activities to qualify as environmentally sustainable. The absence of unif orm criteria
would theref ore increase costs and signif icantly disincentivise economic operators from accessing cross-border
capital mark ets for the purposes of sustainable investment.
(12) The criteria for deter mining whether an economic activity qualifi es as environmentally sustainable should be
harmonised at Union level in order to remove barriers to the functioning of the internal market with regard to
raising funds for sustainability projects, and to prevent the future emerge nce of barriers to such projects. With such
harmonisation, economic operat ors would find it easier to raise funding across borders for their environmentally
sustainable activities, as their economic activities could be compare d against unif orm criteria in order to be selecte d
as underlying assets for environmentally sustainable inve stments. Such harmonisation would theref ore facilitate
cross-border sustainable investment in the Union.
(13) If financial market participants do not provi de any explanation to investors about how the activities in which they
inve st contr ibute to environmental objectives, or if financia l market participants use different concepts in their
explanations of what an environmentally sustainable economic activity is, inve stors will find it dispropor tionat ely
burdensome to chec k and compar e different financia l products. It has been found that such practices discourag e
inve stors from inve sting in envi ronmentally sustainable financia l products. Further more, a lack of investor
conf idence has a major detr imental impa ct on the mark et for sustainable inve stment. It has also been shown that
national rules and mark et-based initiatives taken to tackle that issue within national borders lead to the
fragmentation of the internal market. If financia l market participants disclose how and to what extent the financia l
products that are made available as environmentally sustainable inve st in activities that meet the criteria for
environmentally sustainable economic activities under this Regulation, and if financial mark et participants use
common criteria for such disclosures across the Union, that would help inve stors compare investment
oppor tunities across borders and would incentivise invest ee companies to make their business models more
environmentally sustainable. Additionally , inve stors would inve st in environmentally sustainable financia l products
across the Union with higher conf idence, thereby improving the functioning of the internal mark et.
(14) To address existing obstacles to the functioning of the internal market and to prevent the emergence of such
obstacles in the future, Member States and the Union should be required to use a common concept of
environmentally sustainable investment when introducing requirements at national and Union level regarding
financial market participants or issuers for the purpose of labelling financial products or corporat e bonds that are
mark eted as envi ronmentally sustainable. To avoid market fragmentation and harm to the interests of consumers
and inve stors as a result of diverging notions of environmentally sustainable economic activities, national
requirements that financial mark et participants or issuers have to comply with in order to mark et financial products
or corporate bonds as environmentally sustainable should build on the unif orm criteria for environmentally
sustainable economic activities. Such financial mark et participants and issuers include financial mark et participants
that make available environmentally sustainable financial products and non-financial companies that issue
environmentally sustainable corporate bonds.
(15) Establishing criteria for environmentally sustainable economic activities may encourage economic operat ors not
covered by this Regulation, on a volun tary basis, to publish and disclose information on their website s regarding
the environmentally sustainable economic activities they carry out. That information will not only help financial
mark et participants and other relevant actors on the financial mark ets to easily identify which economic operat ors
carry out envi ronmentally sustainable economic activities, but will also make it easier for those economic operat ors
to raise funding for their environmentally sustainable activities. EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Union 22.6.2020                                                                                                                                         L 198/15