File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:17:58
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 62 of 97
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. The adapta tion solutions referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be assessed and ranked in order of priority using
the best available climate projections and shall, at a minimum, prevent or reduce:
(a) the location-specif ic and context-specific adverse impact of climat e change on the economic activity ; or
(b) the potential adverse imp act of climate change on the environment within which the economic activity takes place.
3. The Commission shall adop t a delegat ed act in accordance with Article 23 to:
(a) supplement paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article by establishing technical screening criteria for deter mining the
conditions under whic h a specifi c economic activity qualifi es as contr ibuting substantially to climate change
adaptation; and
(b) supplement Article 17 by establishing, for each relevant environmental objective, technical screening criteria for
deter mining whether an economic activity in respect of which technical screening criteria have been established
pursuant to point (a) of this paragraph causes signif icant harm to one or more of those objectives.
4. Prior to adopt ing the delegat ed act refer red to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the Commission shall consult the
Platf orm refer red to in Article 20 regarding the technical screening criteria refer red to in paragraph 3 of this Article.
5. The Commission shall establish the technical screening criteria refer red to in paragraph 3 of this Article in one
delegat ed act, taking into account the requirements of Article 19.
6. The Commission shall adopt the delega ted act refer red to in paragraph 3 by 31 December 2020, with a view to
ensur ing its application from 1 Januar y 2022.
Article 12
Subs tantial contr ibution to the sust ainable use and protection of water and mar ine resources
1. An economic activity shall qualify as contr ibuting substantially to the sustainable use and prote ction of wate r and
mar ine resources where that activity either contr ibut es substantially to achieving the good status of bodies of water ,
including bodies of surface water and groundwater or to preventing the deter ioration of bodies of water that already have
good status, or contr ibutes substantially to achi eving the good environmental status of mar ine waters or to preventing the
deterioration of mar ine water s that are already in good environmental status, by:
(a) protecting the environment from the adverse effects of urban and industr ial waste wate r disc harges, including from
contaminants of emerging concer n such as phar maceuticals and microplastics, for example by ensur ing the adequate
collection, treatment and disc harge of urban and industr ial waste water s;