File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 261 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 262/284Business model The undertaking’s system of transforming inputs through its activities into
outputs and outcomes that aims to fulfil the undertaking’s strategic
purposes and create value over the short-, medium- and long-term. ESRS
use the term “business model” in the singular, although it is recognised
that undertakings may have more than one business model.
Business relationships The relationships the undertaking has with business partners, entities in its
value chain, and any other non-State or State entity directly linked to its
business operations, products or services. Business relationships are not
limited to direct contractual relationships. They include indirect business
relationships in the undertaking’s value chain beyond the first tier, and
shareholding positions in joint ventures or investments.
By-product A substance or object resulting from a production process the primary aim
of which is not the production of that substance or object is considered not
to be waste, but to be a by-product if the following conditions are met:
i. further use of the substance or object is certain;
ii. the substance or object can be used directly without any further
processing other than normal industrial practice;
iii. the substance or object is produced as an integral part of a production
process; and
iv. further use is lawful, i.e., the substance or object fulfils all relevant
product, environmental and health protection requirements for the
specific use and will not lead to overall adverse environmental or
human health impacts.
Carbon credit A transferable or tradable instrument that represents one metric tonne of
CO2eq emission reduction or removal and is issued and verified according
to recognised quality standards.
Carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent (eq) The universal unit of measurement to indicate the global warming potential
(GWP) of each greenhouse gas, expressed in terms of the GWP of one unit of
carbon dioxide. It is used to evaluate releasing (or avoiding releasing)
different greenhouse gases on a common basis.
Child labour Work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their
dignity, and that is harmful to physical and mental development. It refers
to work that:
i.is mentally, physically, socially or morally dangerous and harmful to
children; and/or
ii.interferes with their schooling by depriving them of the opportunity to attend school; obliging them to leave school prematurely; or requiring
them to attempt to combine school attendance with excessively long
and heavy work.
A child is defined as a person under the age of 18. Whether or not particular forms of ‘work’ can be called ‘child labour’ depends on the child’s age, the
type and hours of work performed and the conditions under which it is performed. The answer varies from country to country, as well as among
sectors within countries.
The minimum age of work should not be less than the minimum age of
completion of compulsory schooling, and, in any case, should not be less
than 15 years according to International Labour Organisation (ILO)
Convention No. 138 on Minimum Age. Exceptions can occur in certain
countries where economies and educational facilities are insufficiently
developed, and a minimum age of 14 years applies.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 263 of 284 ---