File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 106 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 108/284(b) may include a breakdown of the undertaking’s business activities with the corresponding details of the
associated percentage of total net revenue, the risk factors (hazards, exposure and sensitivity) and, if possible,
the magnitude of the anticipated financial effects in terms of margin erosion over the short-, medium- and
long-term time horizons. The nature of business activities may also be disaggregated by operating segments if
the undertaking has disclosed the contribution of margins by operational segments in its segment reporting in
the financial statements.
Calculation guidance - Anticipated financial effects from transition risk
AR 72. When disclosing the information required under paragraphs 64 (b) and 67 (a), the undertaking shall explain
whether and how:
(a) it has assessed the potential effects on future financial performance and position for assets and business activities at material transition risk, including the scope of application, calculation methodology, critical
assumptions and parameters, and limitations of the assessment; and
(b) the assessment of assets and business activities considered to be at material transition risk relies on or is part of
the process to determine material transition risks as described under paragraphs 20 (c) and AR 11 and to
determine scenarios as required under paragraphs AR 12 to AR 13. In particular, it shall explain how it has
defined medium- and long-term time horizons and how these definitions are linked to the expected lifetime
of the undertaking’s assets, strategic planning horizons and capital allocation plans.
AR 73. When disclosing the information on assets at material transition risk as required under paragraphs 67 (a) and (b):
(a) the undertaking shall at the very least include an estimate of the amount of potentially stranded assets (in monetary amounts and as a proportion/percentage) from the reporting year until 2030 and from 2030 to
2050. Stranded assets are understood as the active or firmly planned key assets of the undertaking with
significant locked-in GHG emissions over their operating lifetime. Firmly planned key assets are those that
the undertaking will most likely deploy within the next 5 years. The amount may be expressed as a range of asset values based on different climate and policy scenarios, including a scenario aligned with limiting climate
change to 1.5°C.
(b) the undertaking shall disclose a breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets, including rights-of-use
assets, by energy efficiency classes. The energy efficiency shall be represented in terms of either the ranges of
energy consumption in kWh/m
2 or the EPC (54)(Energy Performance Certificate) (55)label class. If the
undertaking cannot obtain this information on a best-effort basis, it shall disclose the total carrying amount of the real estate assets for which the energy consumption is based on internal estimates.
(c) the undertaking shall calculate the proportion (percentage) of total assets (including finance lease/right-of-use
assets) at material transition risk addressed by the climate change mitigation actions based on the information
disclosed under Disclosure Requirement E1-3. The total assets amount is the carrying amount on the balance
sheet at the reporting date.
AR 74. When disclosing the information on potential liabilities from material transition risks required under paragraph
67(d):
(a) undertakings that operate installations regulated under an emission trading scheme may include a range of
potential future liabilities originating from these schemes;
(b) undertakings subject to the EU ETS, may disclose the potential future liabilities that relate to their allocation
plans for the period before and until 2030. The potential liability may be estimated on the basis of:
(54)Directive 2010/31/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 2010 on the energy performance of buildings
(OJ L 153, 18.6.2010, p. 13).