File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 50 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 50/284ii. any further steps that are being planned and in what timeline; and
iii. whether these steps are likely to modify the relationship with and views of stakeholders; and
(d) whether and how the administrative, management and supervisory bodies are informed about the views and
interests of affected stakeholders with regard to the undertaking’s sustainability-related impacts.
Disclosure Requirement SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and
business model
46. The undertaking shall disclose its material impacts, risks and opportunities and how they interact with its
strategy and business model.
47. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the material impacts, risks and
opportunities as they result from the undertaking’s materiality assessment and how they originate from and trigger
adaptation of the undertaking’s strategy and business model including its resources allocation. The information to
be disclosed about the management of the undertaking’s material impacts, risks and opportunities is prescribed in
topical ESRS and in sector-specific standards, which shall be applied in conjunction with the Minimum Disclosure
Requirements on policies, actions and targets established in this Standard.
48. The undertaking shall disclose:
(a) a brief description of its material impacts, risks and opportunities resulting from its materiality assessment (see
Disclosure Requirement IRO-1 of this standard), including a description of where in its business model, its own
operations and its upstream and downstream value chain these material impacts, risks and opportunities are
concentrated;
(b) the current and anticipated effects of its material impacts, risks and opportunities on its business model, value
chain, strategy and decision-making, and how it has responded or plans to respond to these effects, including any changes it has made or plans to make to its strategy or business model as part of its actions to address
particular material impacts or risks, or to pursue particular material opportunities;
(c) with reference to the undertaking’s material impacts:
i. how the undertaking’s material negative and positive impacts affect (or, in the case of potential impacts, are likely to affect) people or the environment;
ii. whether and how the impacts originate from or are connected to the undertaking's strategy and business model;
iii. the reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts; and
iv. whether the undertaking is involved with the material impacts through its activities or because of its business
relationships, describing the nature of the activities or business relationships concerned;
(d) the current financial effects of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities on its financial position,
financial performance and cash flows and the material risks and opportunities for which there is a significant
risk of a material adjustment within the next annual reporting period to the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities reported in the related financial statements;
(e) the anticipated financial effects of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities on its financial position,
financial performance and cash flows over the short-, medium- and long-term, including the reasonably
expected time horizons for those effects. This shall include how the undertaking expects its financial position,
financial performance and cash flows to change over the short, medium- and long-term, given its strategy to
manage risks and opportunities, taking into consideration:
i.its investment and disposal plans (for example, capital expenditure, major acquisitions and divestments, joint
ventures, business transformation, innovation, new business areas and asset retirements), including plans the
undertaking is not contractually committed to; and
ii.its planned sources of funding to implement its strategy.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 51 of 284 ---