File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 2 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(4)  The technical screening criteria for determining whether an economic activity contributes substantially to climate 
change mitigation or climate change adaptation should ensure that the economic activity makes a positive impact
on the climate objective or reduces negative impact on the climate objective. Those technical screening criteria
should therefore refer to thresholds or performance levels that the economic activity should achieve in order to
qualify as contributing substantially to one of those climate objectives. The technical screening criteria for ‘do no
significant harm’ should ensure that the economic activity has no significant negative environmental impact.
Consequently, those technical screening criteria should specify the minimum requirements that the economic
activity should meet in order to qualify as environmentally sustainable.  
(5)  The technical screening criteria for determining whether an economic activity contributes substantially to climate 
change mitigation or climate change adaptation and does no significant harm to any of the environmental
objectives should build, where relevant, on existing Union law, best practices, standards and methodologies, as
well as on well-established standards, practices and methodologies developed by internationally reputed public
entities. Where objectively there are no viable alternatives for a specific policy area, the technical screening criteria
could also build on well-established standards developed by internationally reputed private bodies.  
(6)  In order to ensure a level playing field, the same categories of economic activities should be subject to the same 
technical screening criteria for each climate objective. It is therefore necessary that the technical screening criteria,
where possible, follow the classification of economic activities laid down in the NACE Revision 2 classification
system of economic activities established by Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament and of the
Council (  3 ). To facilitate the identification by undertakings and financial market participants of the relevant 
economic activities for which technical screening criteria should be established, the specific description of an
economic activity should also include the references to NACE codes that can be associated with that activity. Those
references should be understood as indicative and should not prevail over the specific definition of the activity
provided in its description.  
(7)  The technical screening criteria for determining under which conditions an economic activity qualifies as 
contributing substantially to climate change mitigation should reflect the need to avoid producing greenhouse
gas emissions, to reduce such emissions or to increase greenhouse gas removals and long-term carbon storage. It is
therefore appropriate to focus first on those economic activities and sectors that have the greatest potential to
achieve those aims. The choice of those economic activities and sectors should be based on their share of overall
greenhouse gas emissions, and on evidence regarding their potential to contribute to avoid producing greenhouse
gas emissions, to reduce such emissions or to contribute to greenhouse gas removal, or to enable such avoidance,
reduction, removal or long-term storage for other activities.  
(8)  The methodology to calculate life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions should be robust and widely applicable and 
thereby promote the comparability of greenhouse gas emissions calculations within and across sectors. It is
therefore appropriate to demand the same calculation methodology across activities, where such calculation is
required, while providing sufficient flexibility for entities applying Regulation (EU) 2020/852. Accordingly, the
Commission Recommendation 2013/179/EU is useful for the calculation of life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions,
with, as an alternative, the possibility to use ISO 14067 or ISO 14064-1 standards. Where alternative well-
established tools or standards are particularly suitable to provide exact and comparable information on the
calculation of life-cycle greenhouse gas emission for a specific sector, such as the G-res tool for the hydropower
sector and the ETSI standard ES 203 199 for the information and communication sector, it is appropriate to
include such tool or standards as additional alternatives for that sector.  
(9)  The methodology to calculate life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions for activities in the hydropower sector should 
reflect the specificities of that sector, including new modelling methodologies, scientific knowledge and empirical
measurements from reservoirs worldwide. To allow accurate reporting on the net impact on greenhouse gas
emissions for the hydropower sector, it is therefore appropriate to allow for the use of the G-res tool that is
publicly available free of charge and has been developed by the International Hydropower Association in collab ­