File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 251 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 250/284(b) any actions taken to address breaches in procedures and standards of anti-corruption and anti-bribery (124).
25. The undertaking may disclose:
(a) the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery;
(b) the number of confirmed incidents in which own workers were dismissed or disciplined for corruption or
bribery-related incidents;
(c) the number of confirmed incidents relating to contracts with business partners that were terminated or not
renewed due to violations related to corruption or bribery; and
(d) details of public legal cases regarding corruption or bribery brought against the undertaking and its own workers
during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. This includes cases that were initiated in previous
years where the outcome was only established in the current reporting period.
26. The disclosures required shall include incidents involving actors in its value chain only where the undertaking or its
employees are directly involved.
Disclosure Requirement G1-5 – Political influence and lobbying activities
27. The undertaking shall provide information on the activities and commitments related to exerting its political
influence, including its lobbying activities related to its material impacts, risks and opportunities.
28. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide transparency on the undertaking’s activities and commitments related to exerting its political influence with political contributions, including the types and purpose
of lobbying activities.
29. The disclosure required by paragraph 27 shall include:
(a) if applicable, the representative(s) responsible in the administrative, management and supervisory bodies for the
oversight of these activities;
(b) for financial or in-kind political contributions:
i.the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by the
undertaking aggregated by country or geographical area where relevant, as well as type of recipient/
beneficiary; and
ii.where appropriate, how the monetary value of in-kind contributions is estimated.
(c) the main topics covered by its lobbying activities and the undertaking’s main positions on these in brief. This
shall include explanations on how this interacts with its material impacts, risks and opportunities identified in its materiality assessment per ESRS 2; and
(d) if the undertaking is registered in the EU Transparency Register or in an equivalent transparency register in a
Member State, the name of any such register and its identification number in the register.
30. The disclosure shall also include information about the appointment of any members of the administrative,
management and supervisory bodies who held a comparable position in public administration (including
regulators) in the 2 years preceding such appointment in the current reporting period.
Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices
31. The undertaking shall provide information on its payment practices, especially with respect to late payments to small
and medium enterprises (SMEs).
(124)This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is
derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts set out in in indicator #16 of Table III of Annex I of
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosures rules on sustainable investments (“Cases of
insufficient action taken to address breaches of standards of anti-corruption and anti-bribery”).OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 251 of 284 ---