File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 20 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(38)  The information and communication sector is a constantly growing sector representing an increasing share in 
greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, information and communication technologies have the potential to
contribute to climate change mitigation and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in other sectors, such as by
providing solutions that may help decision making enabling greenhouse gas emission reductions. Technical
screening criteria should therefore be laid down for data processing and hosting activities that emit high
volumes of greenhouse gas, and for data-driven solutions that enable reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in
other sectors. The technical screening criteria for those activities should be based on the best practices and
standards in that sector. They may need to be reviewed and updated in the future to take into account the
greenhouse gas reduction potential from increased durability of information and communication technologies
hardware solutions and the potential for digital technologies to be deployed in each sector directly to enable
greenhouse gas emissions reductions. Moreover, the deployment and operation of electronic communications
networks use considerable amounts of energy and have the potential to bring significant reductions of greenhouse
gas emissions. It may therefore be necessary to assess those activities and establish relevant technical screening
criteria, where appropriate.  
(39)  Furthermore, information and communication technology solutions that are an integral part of those economic 
activities for which technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation should be
established for their own respective performance, can also be of particular importance in assisting those different
activities to reach the standards and thresholds established under those criteria.  
(40)  Research, development and innovation have the potential to enable other sectors to meet their respective climate 
change mitigation targets. The technical screening criteria for research, development and innovation activities
should therefore focus on the potential of solutions, processes, technologies and other products for reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. Research dedicated to enabling activities as referred to in Article 10(1), point (i) of
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 can also play an important role in enabling those economic activities and their target
activities to substantially reduce their greenhouse gas emissions or to improve their technological and economic
feasibility and ultimately facilitate their scaling up. Research can also play an important role in further decarbon ­
isation of transitional activities as referred to in Article 10(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, by enabling those
activities to be carried out with substantially lower greenhouse gas emissions levels compared to the thresholds
specified in the technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation for those
activities.  
(41)  Furthermore, research, development and innovation that are an integral part of those economic activities for which 
technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation should be established for their
own respective performance, can also be of particular importance in assisting those different activities to reach the
standards and thresholds established under those criteria.  
(42)  The technical screening criteria for determining under which conditions an economic activity qualifies as 
contributing substantially to climate change adaptation should reflect the fact that climate change is likely to
affect all sectors of the economy. As a result, all sectors will need to be adapted to the adverse impact of the
current climate and the expected future climate. It needs to be ensured, however, that an economic activity that
contributes substantially to climate change adaptation also causes no significant harm to any of the other
environmental objectives laid down in Article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. It is therefore appropriate to
first establish technical screening criteria for climate change adaptation for those sectors and economic activities
that are covered by the technical screening criteria for climate change mitigation, including the relevant ‘do no
significant harm’ criteria to the environmental objectives. The descriptions of the economic activities considered as
contributing substantially to climate change adaptation should correspond to the scope for which appropriate ‘do
no significant harm’ criteria could be determined. In the light of the need to increase the overall climate resilience
of the economy, technical screening criteria, including relevant ‘do no significant harm criteria’ should in the future
be developed for additional economic activities.  
(43)  Technical screening criteria should ensure that the broadest possible range of critical infrastructures, including in