File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:25
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 6 of 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(16) A classificat ion of environmentally sustainable economic activities at Union level should enable the development of
future Union policies in suppor t of sustainable finance, including Union-wide standards for environmentally
sustainable financia l products and the eventual establishment of labels that formally recognise compl iance with
those standards across the Union. It could also serve as the basis for other economic and regulator y measures.
Uniform legal requirements for determining the degree of environmental sustainability of inve stments, based on
unif orm criteria for environmentally sustainable economic activities, are necessar y as a reference for future Union
law that aims to facilitat e the shift of investment towards environmentally sustainable economic activities.
(17) In the context of achieving the SDGs in the Union, policy choices such as the creation of a European Fund for
Strateg ic Investment, have been effective in contr ibuting to the channelling of private investment towards
sustainable investments alongside public spending. Regulation (EU) 2015/1017 of the European Parliament and of
the Council (5) specifi es a 40 % climat e investment target for infrastr ucture and inno vation projects under the
European Fund for Strategic Investment. Common criteria for determi ning whether economic activities qualify as
sustainable, including their impact on the environment, could under pin future similar initiatives of the Union to
mobilise inve stment that pursues climat e-related or other environmental objectives.
(18) To avoid harming invest or interests, fund manag ers and institutional investors that make available financial products
should disclose how and to what exte nt they use the criteria for environmentally sustainable economic activities to
determine the environmental sustainability of their investments. The information disclosed should enable invest ors
to understand the propor tion of the inve stments underlying the financia l product in environmentally sustainable
economic activities as a percentage of all inve stments underlying that financial product, thereb y enabling inve stors
to understand the degree of environmental sustainability of the investment. Where the investments underlying the
financial product are in economic activities that contr ibute to an environmental objective, the information to be
disclosed should specify the environmental objective or objectives to whic h the investment underlying the financia l
product contr ibutes, as well as how and to what extent the investments underlying the financia l product fund
environmentally sustainable economic activities, and should include details on the respective propor tions of
enabling and transitional activities. The Commission should specify the information that needs to be disclosed in
that rega rd. That information should enable national compet ent author ities to easily verify compl iance with that
disclosure obligation, and to enforce such compl iance in accordance with applicable national law. Where financial
mark et participants do not take the criteria for envi ronmentally sustainable investments into account, they should
provid e a state ment to that end. To avoid the circum vention of the disclosure obligation, that obligation should also
apply where financial products are mark eted as promoting environmental charact eristics, including financial
products that have as their objective environmental prot ection in a broad sense.
(19) The disclosure obligations laid down in this Regulation supplement the rules on sustainability-related disclosures laid
down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council (6). To enhance transparency
and to provid e an objective point of compari son by financial mark et participants to end inve stors on the
propor tion of investments that fund environmentally sustainable economic activities, this Regulation supplements
the rules on transparency in pre-contractual disclosures and in periodic repor ts laid down in Regulation (EU)
2019/2088. The definition of ‘sustainable investment’ in Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 includes investments in
economic activities that contr ibut e to an environmental objective whic h, amongst others, should include
inve stments into ‘envi ronmentally sustainable economic activities’ within the meaning of this Regulation. Moreover ,
Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 only considers an investment to be a sustainable investment if it does not signif icantly
harm any environmental or social objective as set out in that Regulation.
(5)Regulation (EU) 2015/1017 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 June 2015 on the European Fund for Strategic