File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 29 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 26/284Assessment of financial materiality
AR 13. The following are examples of how impacts and dependencies are sources of risks or opportunities:
(a) when the undertaking’s business model depends on a natural resource – for example water – it is likely to be
affected by changes in the quality, availability and pricing of that resource;
(b) when the undertaking’s activities result in negative impacts, e.g., on local communities, the activities could
become subject to stricter government regulation and/or the impact could trigger consequences of a
reputational nature. These might have negative effects on the undertaking’s brand and higher recruitment
costs might arise; and
(c) when the undertaking’s business partners face material sustainability-related risks, the undertaking could be
exposed to related consequences as well.
AR 14. The identification of risks and opportunities that affect or could reasonably be expected to affect the undertaking’s
financial position, financial performance, cash flows, access to finance or cost of capital over the short-, medium-
or long-term is the starting point for financial materiality assessment. In this context, the undertaking shall
consider:
(a) the existence of dependencies on natural and social resources as sources of financial effects (see paragraph 50);
(b) their classification as sources of:
i.risks (contributing to negative deviation in future expected cash inflows or increase in deviation in future
expected cash outflows and/or negative deviation from an expected change in capitals not recognised in
the financial statements); or
ii.opportunities (contributing to positive deviation in future expected cash inflows or decrease in deviation in
future cash outflows and/or positive deviation from expected change in capitals not recognised in financial
statements).
AR 15. Once the undertaking has identified its risks and opportunities, it shall determine which of them are material for
reporting. This shall be based on a combination of (i) the likelihood of occurrence and (ii) the potential magnitude
of financial effects determined on the basis of appropriate thresholds. In this step it shall consider the
contribution of those risks and opportunities to financial effects in the short-, medium- and long-term based on:
(a) scenarios/forecasts that are deemed likely to materialise; and
(b) potential financial effects related to sustainability matters deriving either from situations with a below the
“more likely than not” threshold or assets/liabilities not, or not yet, reflected in financial statements. This includes:
i. potential situations that following the occurrence of future events may affect cash flow generation
potential;
ii. capitals that are not recognised as assets from an accounting and financial reporting perspective but have a
significant influence on financial performance, such as natural, intellectual (organisational), human, social
and relationship capitals; and
iii. possible future events that may have an influence on the evolution of such capitals.
Sustainability matters to be included in the materiality assessment
AR 16. When performing its materiality assessment, the undertaking shall consider the following list of sustainability
matters covered in the topical ESRS. When, as a result of the undertaking’s materiality assessment (see ESRS 2
IRO-1), a given sustainability matter in this list is assessed to be material, the undertaking shall report according
to the corresponding Disclosure Requirements of the relevant topical ESRS. Using this list is not a substitute for
the process of determining material matters. This list is a tool to support the undertaking’s materiality assessment.
The undertaking still needs to consider its own specific circumstances when determining its material matters. The
undertaking, where necessary, also shall develop entity-specific disclosures on material impacts, risks and
opportunities not covered by ESRS as described in paragraph 11 of this Standard.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 27 of 284 ---