File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 18 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 16/2847. Preparation and presentation of sustainability information
82. This chapter provides general requirements to be applied when preparing and presenting sustainability information.
7.1 Presenting comparative information
83. The undertaking shall disclose comparative information in respect of the previous period for all quantitative metrics
and monetary amounts disclosed in the current period. When relevant to an understanding of the current period’s
sustainability statement, the undertaking shall also disclose comparative information for narrative disclosures.
84. When the undertaking reports comparative information that differs from the information reported in the previous
period it shall disclose:
(a) the difference between the figure reported in the previous period and the revised comparative figure; and
(b) the reasons for the revision of the figure.
85. Sometimes, it is impracticable to adjust comparative information for one or more prior periods to achieve
comparability with the current period. For example, data might not have been collected in the prior period(s) in a
way that allows either retrospective application of a new definition of a metric or target, or retrospective restatement
to correct a prior period error, and it may be impracticable to recreate the information (see ESRS 2 BP-2). When it is
impracticable to adjust comparative information for one or more prior periods, the undertaking shall disclose this
fact.
86. When an ESRS requires the undertaking to present more than one comparative period for a metric or datapoint, the
requirements of that ESRS shall prevail.
7.2 Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty
87. When quantitative metrics and monetary amounts, including upstream and downstream value chain information
(see chapter 5 of this Standard), cannot be measured directly and can only be estimated, measurement uncertainty may arise.
88. An undertaking shall disclose information to enable users to understand the most significant uncertainties affecting
the quantitative metrics and monetary amounts reported in its sustainability statement.
89. The use of reasonable assumptions and estimates, including scenario or sensitivity analysis, is an essential part of
preparing sustainability-related information and does not undermine the usefulness of that information, provided
that the assumptions and estimates are accurately described and explained. Even a high level of measurement
uncertainty would not necessarily prevent such an assumption or estimate from providing useful information or
meeting the qualitative characteristics of information (see Appendix B of this Standard).
90. Data and assumptions used in preparing the sustainability statement shall be consistent to the extent possible with
the corresponding financial data and assumptions used in the undertaking’s financial statements.
91. Some ESRS require the disclosure of information such as explanations about possible future events that have
uncertain outcomes. In judging whether information about such possible future events is material, the undertaking
shall refer to the criteria in Chapter 3 of this Standard and consider:
(a) the potential financial effects of the events (the possible outcome);
(b) the severity and likelihood of the impacts on people or the environment resulting from the possible events,
taking account of the factors of severity specified in paragraph 45; and
(c) the full range of possible outcomes and the likelihood of the possible outcomes within that range.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 17 of 284 ---