File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 217 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

– Processes for engaging with affected communities about impacts — Disclosure Requirement S3 - 3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for affected communities to raise concerns — Disclosure Requirement S3 - 4 – Taking action on material impacts , and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to affected communities , and effectiveness of those actions and approaches Metrics and targets — Disclosure Requirement S3 - 5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts , advancing positive impacts , and managing material risks and opportunitiesOJ L , 22 . 12 . 2023 EN

--- Page 218 of 284 ---

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 218/284Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify disclosure requirements which will enable users of the sustainability
statement to understand material impacts on affected communities connected with the undertaking’s own
operations and value chain, including through its products or services, as well as through its business relationships,
and its related material risks and opportunities, including:
(a) how the undertaking affects communities, in areas where impacts are most likely to be present and severe, in
terms of material positive and negative actual or potential impacts;
(b) any actions taken, and the result of such actions, to prevent, mitigate or remediate actual or potential negative
impacts, and to address risks and opportunities;
(c) the nature, type and extent of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities related to its impacts and
dependencies on affected communities, and how the undertaking manages them; and
(d) the financial effects on the undertaking over the short-, medium- and long-term of material risks and
opportunities arising from the undertaking’s impacts and dependencies on affected communities.
2. In order to meet the objective, this Standard requires an explanation of the general approach the undertaking takes to identify and manage any material actual and potential impacts on affected communities in relation to:
(a) communities’ economic, social and cultural rights (for example, adequate housing, adequate food, water and
sanitation, land-related and security-related impacts);
(b) communities’ civil and political rights (for example, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, impacts on human rights defenders); and
(c) particular rights of indigenous peoples (for example, free, prior and informed consent, self-determination,
cultural rights).
3. This Standard also requires an explanation of how such impacts, as well as the undertaking’s dependencies on
affected communities, can create material risks or opportunities for the undertaking. For example, negative
relationships with affected communities may disrupt the undertaking’s own operations or harm its reputation,
while constructive relationships can bring business benefits, such as stable and conflict-free operations and a greater
ease of recruiting locally.
Interaction with other ESRS
4. This standard applies when material impacts on and/or material risks and opportunities related to affected
communities have been identified through the materiality assessment process laid out in ESRS 2 General disclosures .
5. This Standard shall be read in conjunction with ESRS 1 General requirements, and ESRS 2, as well as the ESRS S1 Own
workforce, ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain and ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users.
Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
6. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with the disclosures required by ESRS 2 on Strategy
(SBM). The resulting disclosures shall be presented alongside the disclosures required by ESRS 2, except for SBM-3
Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model, for which the undertaking
has an option to present the disclosures alongside the topical disclosure.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 219 of 284 ---