File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 56 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

repor t can also give the impression, internal ly and extern ally, that sustainability information belongs to a cate gory of
less relevant information, which can impact negat ively on the perceived reliability of the information. Unde rtakings
should theref ore repor t sustainability information in a clearly identif iable dedicat ed section of the management
repor t and Member States should no long er be allowed to exempt under takings from the oblig ation to include in
the manage ment repor t information on sustainability matt ers.
Such oblig ation would also help to clarify the role of national compet ent author ities in super vising sustainability
repor ting, as part of the management repor t prepared in accordance with Directive 2004/109/EC. In addition,
under takings required to repor t sustainability information should in no case be exem pted from the oblig ation to
publish the manag ement repor t, as it is impor tant to ensure that sustainability information is publicly available.
(58) Article 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU requires under takings whose secur ities are admitte d to trading on a regulat ed
mark et in the Union to include a corporat e governance state ment in their management repor t, whic h has to
contain, among other information, a descr iption of the diversity policy applied by the under taking in relation to its
administrative, manage ment and super visor y bodies. Article 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU leav es flexibility to
under takings to decide what aspects of diversity they repor t on. It does not explicitly oblig e under takings to include
information on any particular aspect of diversity . In order to progress towards a more gender -balanced participation
in economic decision-making, it is necessar y to ensure that under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on
a regulated market in the Union alwa ys repor t on their gender diversity policies and the implementation thereof.
However , to avoid an unnecessar y administrative burden, such under takings should have the possibility of
repor ting some of the information required by Article 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU alongside other sustainability
information. If they decide to do so, the corporat e govern ance statement should include a referen ce to the
under taking’s sustainability repor ting, and the information required under Article 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU
should remain subject to the assurance requirements of the corporat e governance statement.
(59) Article 33 of Directive 2013/34/EU requires Member States to ensure that the members of the administrative,
manage ment and super visor y bodies of an under taking have collective responsibility for ensur ing that the annual
financial statemen ts, the consolidat ed financial statements, the manag ement repor t, the consolidate d management
repor t, the corporat e governance statement and the consolidated corporate govern ance statement are drawn up and
published in accordance with the requirements of that Directive. That collective responsibility should be extende d to
the digitalisation requirements laid down in Delegat ed Regulation (EU) 2019/815, to the requirement to compl y
with Union sustainability repor ting standards and to the requirement to mark up sustainability repor ting.
(60) The assurance profession distinguishes between limite d assurance engag ements and reasonable assurance
engag ements. The conclusion of a limited assurance engag ement is usually provi ded in a negativ e form of
expression by stating that no matt er has been identified by the practitioner to conclude that the subject matt er is
mater ially misstated. In a limite d assurance enga gement, the auditor performs fewer tests than in a reasonable
assurance engag ement. The amount of work for a limited assurance engagement is theref ore less than for a
reasonable assurance engag ement. The amount of work in a reasonable assurance engag ement entails extensi ve
procedures including consideration of intern al controls of the repor ting under taking and substantive testing, and is
theref ore significantly greater than in a limite d assurance enga gement.
The conclusion of a reasonable assurance engag ement is usually provided in a positive form of expression and results
in provid ing an opinion on the measurement of the subject matte r against previously defined criteria. Directive