File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 203 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 204/284Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General disclosures
8. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with the disclosures required by ESRS 2 on Strategy
(SBM). The resulting disclosures shall be presented alongside the disclosures required by ESRS 2, except for SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model, for which the undertaking
has an option to present the disclosures alongside the topical disclosure.
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders
9. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-2 paragraph 43, the undertaking shall disclose how the interests, views, and rights
of its value chain workers could be materially impacted by the undertaking, including respect for their human rights,
inform its strategy and business model. Value chain workers are a key group of affected stakeholders.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
10. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose:
(a) whether and how actual and potential impacts on value chain workers, as identified in ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description
of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: (i) originate from or are connected to the
undertaking’s strategy and business models, and (ii) inform and contribute to adapting the undertaking’s strategy
and business model; and
(b) the relationship between on the one hand its material risks and opportunities arising from impacts and
dependencies on value chain workers, and on the other hand its strategy and business model.
11. When fulfilling the requirements of paragraph ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose whether
all value chain workers who are likely to be materially impacted by the undertaking, including impacts that are
connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including through its products or services , as well as through its business relationships, are included in the scope of its disclosure under ESRS 2. In addition, the
undertaking shall provide the following information:
(a) a brief description of the types of value chain workers who could be materially impacted by the undertaking,
including impacts that connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including through its
products or services, as well as through its business relationships, and specify whether they are:
i. workers working on the undertaking site but who are not part of own workforce, i.e., who are not self-
employed workers or workers provided by third party undertakings primarily engaged in employment
activities (covered through ESRS S1);
ii. workers working for entities in the undertaking’s upstream value chain (e.g., those involved in the extraction
of metals or minerals or harvesting of commodities, in refining, manufacturing or other forms of processing);
iii. workers working for entities in the undertaking’s downstream value chain (e.g., those involved in the
activities of logistics or distribution providers, franchisees, retailers);
iv. workers working in the operations of a joint venture or special purpose vehicle involving the reporting
undertaking;
v. workers who (within the prior categories or additionally) are particularly vulnerable to negative impacts
whether due to their inherent characteristics or to the particular context, such as trade unionists, migrant
workers, home workers, women or young workers.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 205 of 284 ---