File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 65 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(64) Directive 2006/43/EC sets out rules concer ning the statut ory audit of annual and consolidated financial statements.
It is necessar y to ensure that consistent rules apply to the audit of financial statements and the assurance of
sustainability repor ting by the statut ory auditor . Directive 2006/43/EC should apply where the assurance opinion
on sustainability repor ting is expressed by a statut ory auditor or an audit firm.
(65) The rules on the approval and recognition of statutor y auditors and audit firms should allow statutor y auditor s to
qualify also for the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Member States should ensure that statutor y auditors who
wish to qualify for the assurance of sustainability repor ting have the necessar y level of theoretical knowledg e of
subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such knowledg e in practice.
Theref ore, statut ory auditors should complet e practical training of at least eight months in the assurance of annual
and consolidated sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-relate d services, taking account of previous
emplo yment exper ience. Howe ver, statut ory auditors that have already been appro ved or recognised in a Member
State should continue to be allowed to carry out the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Likewise, Member States
should ensure that natural persons who are undergoing the approval process at the date of application of the
requirements for the assurance of sustainability repor ting established by this amending Directive are not subject to
those requirements, provid ed they complet e the process within the follo wing two years. Member States should,
however , ensure that statut ory auditors appro ved within two years of the date of application of those requirements
and who wish to carry out the assurance of sustainability repor ting acquire the necessar y knowledg e in
sustainability repor ting and the assurance of sustainability repor ting via continued profes sional education. Natural
persons who decide to be appro ved only as statut ory auditors for statutor y audit should be able to decide at a later
point in time to qualify also for the assurance of sustainability repor ting. In order to do so, such persons should
meet the necessar y requirements set out by Member States to ensure that they also have the necessar y level of
theoretical knowledg e of subjects relevant to the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the ability to apply such
knowledg e in practice.
(66) It should be ensured that the requirements imposed on auditors as regar ds the statutor y audit and the assurance of
sustainability repor ting they carry out are consiste nt. Theref ore, there should be at least one designate d person who
is actively involved in carrying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting (‘key sustainability partner ’). When
carrying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, statut ory auditors should be required to devot e sufficient time
and assign sufficient resources and exper tise in order to carry out their duties appropr iately . The client account
record should specify the fees charged for the assurance of sustainability repor ting and an assurance file should be
creat ed to include information relat ed to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Where the same statutor y auditor
carries out the statut ory audit of annual financial state ments and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, it should
be possible to include the assurance file in the audit file. However , requirements imposed on statut ory auditors
relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting should only apply to those statut ory auditors that carry out the
assurance of sustainability repor ting.
(67) Statut ory auditors or audit firms that carry out the assurance of sustainability repor ting should have a high level of
technical and specialised exper tise in the field of sustainability .
(68) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member States to put appropr iate rules in place to avoid the fees on the statut ory
audit being influenced or determined by the provision of additional services to the audited entity or being based on
any form of contingenc y. That Directive also requires Member States to ensure that statutor y auditors carrying out
statut ory audits compl y with the rules on professional ethics, independence, objectivity , confidentiality and