File Name: 1_2024-02-28_RL_2024_825_GCD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:42
Original Size: 0.61 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 5 of 34
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2024/825/oj 2/16character istics and circular ity aspects to the list of the main charact eristics of a product in respect of whic h a trader ’s
practices can be considered misleading, follo wing a case-by- case assessment. Information provided by traders on the
social character istics of a product throughout its value chain can relat e, for example, to the quality and fairness of
working conditions of the workf orce involved, such as adequat e wages, social protection, the safety of the work
environment and social dialogue. Such information can also relat e to respect for human rights, to equal treatment
and oppor tunities for all, including gender equality , inclusion and diversity , to contr ibutions to social initiatives or
to ethical commitments, such as animal welfare. The envi ronmental and social character istics of a product can be
underst ood in a broad sense, encompassing the environmental and social aspects, impa ct and performa nce of a
product.
(4) Envi ronmental claims, in particular climat e-relat ed claims, increasing ly relate to future performa nce in the form of a
transition to carbon or climat e neutrality , or a similar objective, by a certain date. Through such claims, traders creat e
the impression that consumers contr ibute to a low-car bon econom y by purc hasing their products. To ensure the
fairness and credibility of such claims, Article 6(2) of Directive 2005/29/EC should be amended to prohibit such
claims, following a case-by-case assessment, where they are not suppor ted by clear , objective, publicly available and
verifiable commitments and targets given by the trader and set out in a detailed and realistic implementation plan
that shows how those commitments and targets will be achieved and that allocat es resources to that end. That
imp lementation plan should include all the relevant elements necessar y to fulfil the commitments, such as
budgetary resources and technological developments, where appropr iate and in accordance with Union law. Such
claims should also be verified by a third party exper t, who should be independent from the trader , free from any
conf licts of interest, with exper ience and compet ence in environmental issues and who should be able to monitor
the progress of the trader regularly with regar d to the commitments and targe ts, including the milestones for
achi eving them. Traders should ensure that the regular findings of the third party exper t are available to consumers.
(5) Another poten tially misleading commercial practice to be added to the specifi c practices referred to in Article 6(2) of
Directive 2005/29/EC is adver tising benefi ts to consumers that are irrelevant and not directly related to any feature
of that specifi c product or business and whic h could mislead consumers into believing that they are more beneficial
to consumers, the environment or society than other products or traders’ businesses of the same type, for example,
claiming that a particular brand of bottled water is gluten-free or claiming that paper sheets do not contain plastic.
(6) Com paring products based on their environmental or social characteri stics or circular ity aspects, such as durability ,
reparability or recy clability , is an increasing ly common mark eting technique that could mislead consumers, who are
not alwa ys able to assess the reliability of that information. In order to ensure that such comparisons do not mislead
consumers, Article 7 of Directive 2005/29/EC should be amended to require traders to provid e consumers with
information about the method of comparison, the products which are the object of comparison and the suppliers
of those products, and the measures to keep information up to date . This should ensure that consumers make
bette r-informed transactional decisions when relying on such compar isons. It should be ensured that such
compari sons are objective by, in particular , comparing products which serve the same function, using a common
method and common assump tions, and compar ing mat erial and verifiable features of the products being compare d.