File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 45 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 46/284Disclosure Requirement GOV-2 – Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s
administrative, management and supervisory bodies
24. The undertaking shall disclose how the administrative, management and supervisory bodies are informed
about sustainability matters and how these matters were addressed during the reporting period.
25. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of how administrative, management
and supervisory bodies are informed about sustainability matters, as well as what information and matters they
addressed during the reporting period. This in turn allows an understanding of whether the members of these
bodies were adequately informed and whether they were able to fulfil their roles.
26. The undertaking shall disclose the following information:
(a) whether, by whom and how frequently the administrative, management and supervisory bodies, including their
relevant committees, are informed about material impacts, risks and opportunities (see Disclosure Requirement
IRO–1 - Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities of this Standard), the
implementation of due diligence, and the results and effectiveness of policies, actions, metrics and targets
adopted to address them;
(b) how the administrative, management and supervisory bodies consider impacts, risks and opportunities when
overseeing the undertaking’s strategy, its decisions on major transactions, and its risk management process,
including whether they have considered trade-offs associated with those impacts, risks and opportunities; and
(c) a list of the material impacts, risks and opportunities addressed by the administrative, management and
supervisory bodies, or their relevant committees during the reporting period.
Disclosure Requirement GOV-3 – Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes
27. The undertaking shall disclose information about the integration of its sustainability-related performance in
incentive schemes.
28. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of whether incentive schemes are offered
to members of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies that are linked to sustainability matters.
29. The undertaking shall disclose the following information about the incentive schemes and remuneration policies
linked to sustainability matters for members of the undertaking's administrative, management and supervisory
bodies, where they exist:
(a) a description of the key characteristics of the incentive schemes;
(b) whether performance is being assessed against specific sustainability-related targets and/or impacts, and if so,
which ones;
(c) whether and how sustainability-related performance metrics are considered as performance benchmarks or
included in remuneration policies;
(d) the proportion of variable remuneration dependent on sustainability-related targets and/or impacts; and
(e) the level in the undertaking at which the terms of incentive schemes are approved and updated.
Disclosure Requirement GOV–4 - Statement on due diligence
30. The undertaking shall disclose a mapping of the information provided in its sustainability statement about
the due diligence process.
31. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to facilitate an understanding of the undertaking’s due diligence
process with regard to sustainability matters.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 47 of 284 ---