File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 204 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 205/284(b) any geographies, at country level or other levels, or commodities for which there is a significant risk of child
labour , or of forced labour or compulsory labour, among workers in the undertaking’s value chain (104);
(c) in the case of material negative impacts, whether they are either (i) widespread or systemic in contexts where the
undertaking operates or has sourcing or other business relationships (e.g., child labour or forced labour in
particular commodity supply chains in specific countries or regions), or (ii) related to individual incidents (e.g.,
an industrial accident or an oil spill) or to specific business relationships. This includes consideration of impacts on value chain workers that may arise from the transition to greener and climate-neutral operations. Potential
impacts include impacts associated with innovation and restructuring, closure of mines, increased mining of minerals needed for the transition to a sustainable economy, and solar panel production;
(d) in the case of material positive impacts, a brief description of the activities that result in the positive impacts (e.g., updated purchasing practices, capacity-building to supply chain workers), including providing opportunities for
the workforce such as job creation and upskilling in the context of a ‘just transition’, and the types of value chain
workers that are positively affected or could be positively affected; the undertaking may also disclose whether the
positive impacts occur in specific countries or regions; and
(e) any material risks and opportunities for the undertaking arising from impacts and dependencies on value chain
workers.
12. In describing the main types of value chain workers who are or could be negatively affected, based on the materiality
assessment set out in ESRS 2 IRO-1, the undertaking shall disclose whether and how it has developed an understanding of how workers with particular characteristics, those working in particular contexts, or those
undertaking particular activities may be at greater risk of harm.
13. The undertaking shall disclose which, if any, of its material risks and opportunities arising from impacts and
dependencies on its value chain workers relate to specific groups of value chain workers (for example, particular age
groups, workers in a particular factory or country) rather than to all of the value chain workers.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers
14. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts on value chain workers, as well as
associated material risks and opportunities.
15. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which the undertaking
has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or remediation of material impacts on
value chain workers specifically, as well as policies that cover material risks or opportunities related to value chain
workers.
16. The disclosure required by paragraph 14 shall contain the information on the undertaking’s policies to manage its
material impacts, risks and opportunities related to value chain workers in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies
adopted to manage material sustainability matters. In addition, the undertaking shall specify whether such policies cover
specific groups of value chain workers or all value chain workers.
(104)This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is
derived from additional indicators related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicators number 12 and number 13 in Table III
of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments
(“Operations and suppliers at significant risk of incidents of child labour” and “Operations and suppliers at significant risk of
incidents of forced or compulsory labour”).OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 206 of 284 ---