File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 14 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(28)  The legal boundaries for transitional activities set out in Article 10(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 provide 
constraints in respect to greenhouse gas intensive activities with large potential for emission reduction. Such
transitional activities should make a substantial contribution to climate change mitigation where no technologically
and economically feasible low carbon alternative exists, provided they are compatible with a pathway to limit the
temperature increase to 1,5 °C above pre-industrial levels, reflect best-in-class performance, do not hamper the
development and deployment of low-carbon alternatives and do not lead to lock-in of carbon-intensive assets. In
addition, Article 19 of the same Regulation requires, in particular, that the technical screening criteria should be
based on conclusive scientific evidence. Where natural gas activities fulfil those requirements, they will be included
in a future delegated act. For these activities, the technical screening criteria for assessing substantial contribution to
climate change mitigation and ‘do no significant harm’ to other environmental objectives will be specified in that
future delegated act. Activities that do not meet these requirements cannot be recognised under the Regulation
(EU) 2020/852. In order to acknowledge the role of natural gas as an important technology in reducing
greenhouse gas emissions, the Commission will consider a specific legislation to ensure that activities contributing
to emissions reductions would not be deprived of appropriate financing.  
(29)  The technical screening criteria for electricity or heat generation activities as well as for transmission and 
distribution networks should ensure coherence with the Communication from the Commission of 14 October
2020 on an EU strategy to reduce methane emissions (  10 ). It may therefore be necessary to review, complement, 
and, where necessary, revise those technical screening criteria to reflect any future metrics and requirements
established as follow-up to that strategy.  
(30)  The technical screening criteria for the production of heating, cooling and power from bioenergy and the 
production of biofuels and biogas for transport should be consistent with the comprehensive sustainability
framework for those sectors laid down under Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the
Council (  11 ), setting requirements for sustainable harvesting, carbon accounting and greenhouse gas emission 
savings.  
(31)  In the follow-up of to the European Green Deal, the European Climate Law (  12 ) proposal, the EU Biodiversity 
Strategy for 2030, and in accordance with the biodiversity and climate neutrality ambitions of the Union, technical
screening criteria for bioenergy activities should be complemented, reviewed and where necessary revised to take
into account the latest evidence base and policy developments at the time of adoption of the delegated act referred
to in Article 15(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 and taking into account relevant Union law, including Directive
(EU) 2018/2001 and its future revisions.  
(32)  Greenhouse gas emissions in the Union stemming from the water, sewerage, waste and remediation sector are 
relatively small. That sector nevertheless has a great potential to contribute to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in
other sectors, particularly through the provision of secondary raw materials to replace virgin raw materials,
through replacing fossil-based products, fertiliser and energy, and through the transport and permanent storage
of captured carbon dioxide. Furthermore, activities involving anaerobic digestion as well as composting of
separately collected bio-waste, which avoid landfilling of bio-waste are particularly important for reducing
methane emissions. The technical screening criteria for waste activities should therefore recognise those activities
as substantially contributing to climate change mitigation, provided that those activities apply certain best practices
for that sector. Those technical screening criteria should also ensure that waste treatment options are in line with
higher levels of the waste hierarchy. The technical screening criteria should recognise as substantially contributing
to climate change mitigation those activities that process a uniformly set minimum share of sorted separately
collected non-hazardous waste into secondary raw materials. However, it is not possible at this stage for technical
screening criteria based on a uniformly set target for reprocessing waste to address fully the climate mitigation
potential of individual material streams. It may therefore be necessary to further assess and review those technical