File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 211 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 211/284downstream value chains), its value chain (such as relying on commodities of unclear provenance, without
visibility on impacts on workers), or its cost structure and the revenue model (e.g. shifting inventory risk to
suppliers, with knock-on effects on the labour rights of their workers).
AR 7. Impacts on value chain workers that originate in the strategy or the business model can also bring material risks
to the undertaking. For example, in the context of a pandemic or other severe health crisis, undertakings that rely
on contingent labour with little to no access to sick care and health benefits may face severe operational and
business continuity risks as workers have no choice but to keep working while sick, further exacerbating the
spread of the disease and causing major supply chain breakdowns. Another example is where selling goods
premised on cheapest prices for customers create operational risks as suppliers under extreme price pressure may
sub-contract production, leading to lower quality, and a longer, less transparent, and less controllable supply chain. Reputational and business opportunity risks linked to the exploitation of low-skilled, low-paid workers in sourcing
geographies with minimal protections for them are also increasing with media backlash and consumer preferences
moving to more ethically sourced or sustainable goods.
AR 8. Examples of particular characteristics of value chain workers that may be considered by the undertaking when
responding to paragraph 12 relate to young workers that may be more susceptible to impacts on their physical
and mental development, or women workers in a context where women are routinely discriminated against in the
terms and conditions of work, or migrant workers in a context where the market for the supply of labour is poorly
regulated and workers are routinely charged recruitment fees. For some workers, the inherent nature of the activity
that they are required to undertake may put them at risk (e.g., workers required to handle chemicals or operate
certain equipment or low paid workers who are on “zero hours” contracts).
AR 9. With regard to paragraph 13, material risks could also arise because of the undertaking’s dependency on value
chain workers where low likelihood but high impact events may trigger financial effects; for example, where a
global pandemic leads to severe health impacts on workers at all stages of the value chain resulting in major disruptions to production and distribution. Other examples of risk related to the undertaking’s dependency on
value chain workers include a shortage in skilled workers or political decisions or legislation affecting value chain
workers working for logistics providers. For example, if some workers in the undertaking’s value chain are at risk
of forced labour , and the undertaking is importing products into countries where the law allows for the
confiscation of imported goods that are suspected of being made with forced labour.
Impact, risk and opportunity management
Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers
AR 10. If the policies are limited to the undertaking’s own workforce and do not cover workers in upstream and
downstream entities and relationships, they shall be disclosed under ESRS S1 and not in relation to this
requirement.
AR 11. If the disclosures under ESRS S1 include information relevant for workers in the value chain, a reference to this can be made here; disclosures on the remaining elements shall then be fulfilled under this Disclosure Requirement.
AR 12. The undertaking may disclose explanations of significant changes to the policies adopted during the reporting year
(e.g., new expectations for suppliers, new or additional approaches to due diligence and remedy).
AR 13. The policy may take the form of a stand-alone policy regarding value chain workers or be included in a broader
document such as a code of ethics or a general sustainability policy that has already been disclosed by the
undertaking as part of another ESRS. In those cases, the undertaking shall provide an accurate cross-reference to
identify the aspects of the policy that satisfy the requirements of this Disclosure Requirement.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 212 of 284 ---