File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 220 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 221/284on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises that involve
affected communities have been reported in its own operations or in its upstream and downstream value chain and,
if applicable, an indication of the nature of such cases (114).
18. The policy may take the form of a stand-alone policy regarding communities or be included in a broader document
such as a code of ethics or a general sustainability policy that has already been disclosed by the undertaking as part
of another ESRS. In those cases, the undertaking shall provide an accurate cross-reference to identify the aspects of
the policy that satisfy the requirements of this Disclosure Requirement.
Disclosure Requirement S3-2 – Processes for engaging with affected communities about impacts
19. The undertaking shall disclose its general processes for engaging with affected communities and their
representatives about actual and potential impacts on them.
20. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of whether and how the undertaking
engages, as part of its ongoing due diligence process, with affected communities, their legitimate representatives, or
with credible proxies, about material actual and potential positive and/or negative impacts that do or are likely to
affect them, and whether and how perspectives of affected communities are taken into account in the decision-
making processes of the undertaking.
21. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how the perspectives of affected communities inform its decisions or
activities aimed at managing actual and potential impacts on communities. This shall include, where relevant, an
explanation of:
(a) whether engagement occurs with affected communities or their legitimate representatives directly, or with
credible proxies that have insight into their situation;
(b) the stage(s) at which engagement occurs, the type of engagement, and the frequency of the engagement;
(c) the function and the most senior role within the undertaking that has operational responsibility for ensuring this
engagement happens, and that the results inform the undertaking’s approach;
(d) where applicable, how the undertaking assesses the effectiveness of its engagement with affected communities,
including, where relevant, any agreements or outcomes that result.
22. Where applicable, the undertaking shall disclose the steps it takes to gain insight into the perspectives of affected
communities that may be particularly vulnerable to impacts and/or marginalised, and into the perspective of specific
groups within the affected communities, such as women and girls.
23. Where affected communities are indigenous peoples, the undertaking shall also disclose how it takes into account
and ensures respect of their particular rights in its stakeholder engagement approach, including their right to free,
prior and informed consent with regard to: (i) their cultural, intellectual, religious and spiritual property; (ii)
activities affecting their lands and territories; and (iii) legislative or administrative measures that affect them. In
particular, where engagement occurs with indigenous peoples, the undertaking shall also disclose whether and how
indigenous peoples have been consulted on the mode and parameters of the engagement (for example, in designing
the agenda, nature, and timeliness of the engagement).
(114)This information supports the information needs of: financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is
derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #10 in Table I of Annex I of
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Violations of UN
Global Compact principles and Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises”); and benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 as set out by indicator “Number of benchmark constituents subject to social violations (absolute number and relative divided by all benchmark
constituents), as referred to in international treaties and conventions, United Nations principles and, where applicable, national law”
in section 1 and 2 of Annex II.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 222 of 284 ---