File Name: 1_2024-02-28_RL_2024_825_GCD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:42
Original Size: 0.61 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 26 of 34
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2024/825/oj 9/16a simple and clear manner allowing them to compar e different minimum periods. This is without prejudice to the
oblig ations set out in Union law, in particular in Directives (EU) 2019/770 and (EU) 2019/771 and, where
applicable, product-specific Union law. The information on software updat es should be provid ed in a manner that
is not misleading under Directive 2005/29/EC. The trader should be obliged to provid e this information only where
the producer or provider has made such information available.
(34) Pursuant to Article 5(1), point (e), and Article 6(1), point (m), of Directive 2011/83/EU, before consumers are bound
by a contract, traders are oblig ed to provid e consumers with information on the existen ce and the conditions of
after-sales services, including repair services, where such services are provid ed. In addition, to allow consumers to
make an informed transactional decision and choose goods that are easier to repair , traders should, where
applicable, provide, before consumers are bound by the contract, the reparability score for the good as provid ed by
the producer and as established at Union level.
(35) In order to ensure that consumers are well informed about the reparability of the goods they purc hase, where a
reparability score is not established at Union level, traders should provid e other relevant information on repair that
is made available by the producer , such as information about the availability , estimated cost and procedure for
order ing spare parts that are necessar y to keep the goods in conf ormity , the availability of repair and mainte nance
instr uctions and repair restr ictions.
(36) Traders should provide consumers with the harmonised label, information about the minimum period for updat es
and information on repair other than the reparability score, where the producer or provid er of the digital cont ent or
digital service, if different from the trader , mak es the relevant information available. In particular , as regards goods,
the trader should conve y to consumers the information that the producer has provided to the trader or has
other wise intended to make readily available to the consumer before the conclusion of the contract, by indicating it
on the product itself, its packaging or tags and labels that the consumer would normally consult before concluding
the contract. The trader should not be required to actively seek such information from the producer , for example,
by searc hing on the product-specif ic website s. At the same time, it would be in the interest of the producers to
proactively provide such information to benefi t from a commercial advantage.
(37) Traders should, where applicable, inform consumers about the availability of environmentally friendly deliver y
options, such as the deliver y of goods by cargo bike or electr ic deliver y vehicle or the possibility of bundled
shipping options.
(38) If a distance contract that is to be concluded by electronic means places the consumer under an obligation to pay, the
trader should make the consumer aware of the harmonised label, whenever provi ded, in a clear and prominent
manner , and directly before the consumer places an order to ensure the consumer takes that information into
account.
(39) Directives 2005/29/EC and 2011/83/EU should continue to function as a ‘safety net’, ensur ing that a high level of
consumer prot ection can be maintained in all sectors by complementing sector and product-specif ic Union law that
prevail in case of conf lict.
(40) Since the objectives of this Directive, namely , enabling better-informed transactional decisions by consumers to
promote sustainable consum ption, eliminating practices that cause damage to the sustainable economy and prevent
consumers from making sustainable consum ption choices, and ensur ing a better and consistent application of the
Union consumer legal framewor k, cannot be suffi ciently achieved by the Member States but can rather , by reason of