File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 234 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 234/284Disclosure Requirements
ESRS 2 General Disclosures
7. The requirements of this section should be read in conjunction with the disclosures required by ESRS 2 on Strategy
(SBM). The resulting disclosures shall be presented alongside the disclosures required by ESRS 2, except for SBM-3
Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model, for which the undertaking
has an option to present the disclosures alongside the topical disclosure.
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
8. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-2, paragraph 43, the undertaking shall disclose how the interests, views and rights
of its consumers and/or end-users, including respect for their human rights, inform its strategy and business model.
Consumers and/or end-users are a key group of affected stakeholders.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
9. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose:
(a) whether and how actual and potential impacts on consumers and/or end-users as identified in Disclosure
Requirements ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities:
(i) originate from or are connected to the undertaking’s strategy and business model, and (ii) inform and
contribute to adapting the undertaking’s strategy and business model, and
(b) the relationship between its material risks and opportunities arising from impacts and dependencies on
consumers and/or end-users and its strategy and business model.
10. When fulfilling the requirements of paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose whether all consumers and/or end-
users who are likely to be materially impacted by the undertaking, including impacts connected with the
undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including through its products or services, as well as through its
business relationships, are included in the scope of its disclosure under ESRS 2. In addition, the undertaking shall
disclose the following information:
(a) a brief description of the types of consumers and/or end-users subject to material impacts by its own operations
or through its value chain, and specify whether they are:
i. consumers and/or end-users of products that are inherently harmful to people and/or increase risks for
chronic disease;
ii. consumers and/or end-users of services that potentially negatively impact their rights to privacy, to have their
personal data protected, to freedom of expression and to non- discrimination;
iii. consumers and/or end-users who are dependent on accurate and accessible product- or service- related
information, such as manuals and product labels, to avoid potentially damaging use of a product or service;
iv. consumers and/or end-users who are particularly vulnerable to health or privacy impacts or impacts from marketing and sales strategies, such as children or financially vulnerable individuals;
(b) in the case of material negative impacts, whether they are either (i) widespread or systemic in contexts where the
undertaking sells or provides its products or services (for example, state surveillance that affects the privacy of
service users), or (ii) related to individual incidents (for example, a defect linked to a particular product) or to
specific business relationships (for example, a business partner uses marketing that inappropriately targets
young consumers);OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 235 of 284 ---