File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 184 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 185/284AR 29. Third party mechanisms could include those operated by the government, NGOs, industry associations and other
collaborative initiatives. The undertaking may disclose whether these are accessible to all of its own workforce (or
workers’ representatives or, in their absence, individuals or organisations acting on their behalf or who are
otherwise in a position to be aware of negative impacts).
AR 30. The undertaking shall consider whether and how people in its own workforce that may be affected and their
workers' representatives are able to access channels at the level of the undertaking they are employed by, or
contracted to work for, in relation to each material impact. Relevant channels may include hotlines, trade unions
(where people in the workforce are unionised) or works councils, or other grievance mechanisms operated by the
relevant undertaking or by a third party.
AR 31. In explaining whether and how the undertaking knows that people in its own workforce are aware of and trust
any of these channels, the undertaking may provide relevant and reliable data about the effectiveness of these
channels from the perspective of the people concerned. Examples of sources of information are surveys of
people in the undertaking’s workforce that have used such channels and their levels of satisfaction with the
process and outcomes.
AR 32. In describing the effectiveness of channels for its own workforce and workers’ representatives to raise concerns,
the undertaking may be guided by the following questions, based on the “effectiveness criteria for non-judicial
grievance mechanisms”, as laid out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, in particular
principle 31. The considerations below may be applied to individual channels or to a collective system of
channels:
(a) do the channels have legitimacy by providing appropriate accountability for their fair conduct and building stakeholder trust?
(b) are the channels known and accessible to stakeholders?
(c) do the channels have clear and known procedures, with indicative timeframes?
(d) do the channels ensure reasonable access for stakeholders to sources of information, advice and expertise?
(e) do the channels offer transparency by providing sufficient information both to complainants and, where
applicable, to meet any public interest?
(f) do outcomes achieved through the channels accord with internationally recognised human rights?
(g) does the undertaking identify insights from the channels that support continuous learning in both improving the channels and preventing future impacts?
(h) does the undertaking focus on dialogue with complainants as the means to reach agreed solutions, rather than seeking to unilaterally determine the outcome?
Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions and approaches
AR 33. It may take time to understand negative impacts and how the undertaking may be involved with them through its
own workforce, as well as to identify appropriate responses and put them into practice). Therefore, the
undertaking may disclose:
(a) its general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts;
(b) its initiatives aimed at contributing to additional material positive impacts;
(c) how far it has progressed in its efforts during the reporting period; and
(d) its aims for continued improvement.
AR 34. Appropriate action can vary according to whether the undertaking causes or contributes to a material impact, or
whether it is involved because the impact is directly linked to its operations, products or services by a business
relationship.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 186 of 284 ---