File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:25
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 25 of 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

including carbon-inten sive lock -in effects, during the economic lifetime of the funded economic activity . Those
criteria should also consider the long-term impact of a specific economic activity .
(40) An economic activity should not qualify as environmentally sustainable if it causes more harm to the environment
than the benefits it brings. The technical screening criteria should identify the minimum requirements necessar y to
avoid significant harm to other objectives, including by building on any minimum requirements laid down pursuant
to Union law. When establishing and updating the technical screening criteria, the Commission should ensure that
those criteria are based on available scientifi c evidence, are developed by taking into account life-cy cle
considerations, including existing life-cy cle assessments, and are updat ed regularly . Where scientifi c evaluation does
not allow for a risk to be determined with sufficient certainty , the precautionar y principle should apply in
accordance with Article 191 TFEU.
(41) In establishing and updating the technical screening criteria for the environmental objective of climat e change
mitig ation, the Commission should take into account and provid e incentives for the ongoing and necessar y
transition towards a climat e-neutral econom y in accordance with Article 10(2) of this Regulation. In addition to the
use of climat e-neutral energy and more investments in already low-carbon economic activities and sectors, the
transition requires substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in other economic activities and sectors for
which there are no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon altern atives. Those transitional economic
activities should qualify as contr ibuting substantially to climate change mitig ation if their greenhouse gas emissions
are substantially lowe r than the sector or industr y average, they do not hamper the development and deplo yment of
low-carbon alternati ves and they do not lead to a lock-in of assets incompatible with the objective of climate -
neutrality , consider ing the economic lifetime of those assets. The technical screening criteria for such transitional
economic activities should ensure that those transitional activities have a credible path towards climat e-neutrality ,
and should be adjusted according ly at regular inter vals.
(42) An economic activity should qualify as contr ibuting substantially to one or more of the environmental objectives set
out in this Regulation where it directly enables other activities to make a substantial contr ibution to one or more of
those objectives. Such enabling activities should not lead to a lock -in of assets that under mine long-t erm
environmental goals, consider ing the economic lifetime of those assets, and should have a substantial positive
environmental impact, on the basis of life-cy cle considerations.
(43) When establishing and updating the technical screening criteria the Commission should take into account relevant
Union law, including Regulations (EC) No 1221/2009 (55) and (EC) 66/2010 (56) of the European Parliament and of
the Council, as well as Commission Recommendation 2013/179/EU (57) and the communication of the
Commission of 16 July 2018 on ‘Public procurement for a better envi ronment ’. To avoid unnecessar y
inconsiste ncies with classifications of economic activities that already exist for other purposes, the Commission
should also take into account the statistical classificat ions relating to the environmental goods and services sector,
namely the classificat ion of environmental prote ction activities (CEP A) and the classification of resource
manage ment activities (CReMA) of Regulation (EU) No 538/2014 of the European Parliament and of the
Council (58). When establishing and updating the technical screening criteria, the Commission should take into
account existing environmental indicator s and repor ting framew orks, developed by, amongst others, the
Commission and the European Environm ent Agen cy, and existing internati onal standards, such as those developed
by, amongst others, the OECD.
(55)Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntar y participation
by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS), repealing Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 and