File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:25
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 28 of 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(44) When establishing and updating the technical screening criteria, the Commission should also take into account the
specifi cities of the infrastr ucture sector and should take into account environmental, social and economic
externalit ies within a cost-benefit analysis. In that regard, the Commission should take into account relevant Union
law, including Directives 2001/42/EC (59), 2011/92/EU (60), 2014/23/EU (61), 2014/24/EU (62) and 2014/25/EU (63)
of the European Parliament and of the Council, standards and current methodology , as well as the work of
internati onal organisations, such as the OECD. In that cont ext, the technical screening criteria should promot e
appropr iate governance frameworks integrat ing environmental, social and govern ance factors as referred to in the
United Nations-suppor ted Principles for Responsible Investment at all stages of a project’s life cycle.
(45) The technical screening criteria should ensure that relevant economic activities within a specifi c sector can qualify as
environmentally sustainable and are treated equally if they contr ibut e equally to one or more of the environmental
objectives laid down in this Regulation. The potential capacity to contr ibute to those environmental objectives can
vary across sectors, which should be reflecte d in those criteria. However , within each sector, those criteria should
not unfairly disadvantag e certain economic activities over others if the former contr ibut e to the environmental
objectives to the same exte nt as the latter.
(46) When establishing and updating technical screening criteria for environmentally sustainable activities, the
Commission should assess whether the establishment of those criteria would give rise to stranded assets or would
result in inconsistent incentives, or would have any other adverse impact on financia l markets.
(47) To avoid overly burdensome compl iance costs on economic operat ors, the Commission should establish technical
screening criteria that provid e for sufficient legal clarity, that are practicable and easy to apply , and for which
compl iance can be verified within reasonable cost-of-com pliance boundar ies, thereby avoiding unnecessar y
administrative burden. Techn ical screening criteria could require carrying out a life-cy cle assessment where
suffi ciently practicable and where necessar y.
(48) To ensure that investments are channelled towards economic activities that mak e the great est positive impact on the
environmental objectives, the Commission should give priority to the establishment of technical screening criteria
for the economic activities that potentially contr ibute most to the environmental objectives.
(49) Appropr iate technical screening criteria should be established for the transpor t sector , including for mobile assets.
Those screening criteria should take into account the fact that the transpor t sector, including internati onal shipping,
contr ibut es close to 26 % of total greenhouse gas emissions in the Union. As stated in the Action Plan on Financing
Sustainable Gro wth the transpor t sector represents about 30 % of the additional annual investment needed for
sustainable development in the Union, for example to increase electr ification or to suppor t the transition to cleaner
modes of transpor t by promoting modal shift and better traffic management.
(50) When developing the technical screening criteria, it is of particular imp ortance that the Commission carry out
appropr iate consultations in line with the Bett er Regulation Agenda. The process for the establishment and updat e
of the technical screening criteria should involve relevant stak eholders and should build on the advice of exper ts
who have proven knowledg e and exper ience in the relevant areas. For that purpose, the Commission should set up
a Platf orm on Sustainable Finance (the ‘Platf orm’). The Platf orm should be compo sed of exper ts representing both
the public and private sectors. Public-sector exper ts should include representatives of the European Environmental
(59)Directive 2001/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2001 on the assessment of the effects of certain plans
and programmes on the environment (OJ L 197, 21.7.2001, p. 30).