File Name: 1_2024-02-28_RL_2024_825_GCD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:42
Original Size: 0.61 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 23 of 34
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2024/825/oj 8/16(27) Recent repor ts have shown that consumers are often unaware of their legal rights under Directive (EU) 2019/771.
Theref ore, a harmonised notice should remind consumers about the existence and the main elements of the legal
guarant ee of conf ormity , including its minimum duration of two years and a general reference to the possibility that
the duration of the legal guarant ee of conf ormity can be longer under national law. This will prevent possible
confusion with the information on the commercial guarant ee of durability .
(28) The harmonised label should be displa yed in a prominent manner and used in a way that allows consumers to easily
identify which particular good benefits from a commercial guarant ee of durability offered by the producer at no
additional cost, covering the entire good, and with a duration of more than two years, for exam ple by placing the
label directly on the packa ging of a particular good, by displa ying the label in a prominent manner on the shelf
where the goods covered by such a guarantee are placed or by placing it directly next to the picture of the good in
the case of online sale. Producers offer ing such commercial guarant ees of durability can themselves place the
harmonised label directly on the particular good or on its packaging, with the aim of benefitti ng from a commercial
advantage . Traders should ensure that the harmonised label is clearly visible. Meanwhile, the harmonised notice
should provide a general reminder to the consumers about the legal guarant ee of conf ormity applicable to all goods
in accordance with Directive (EU) 2019/771. The harmonised notice should be displa yed in a prominent manner , for
example, on a poster in an eye-catch ing way on a wall in the shop, next to the check out counte r or, in cases of online
sale, placed as a general reminder on the website of the trader selling goods.
(29) Implementing powers should be conferr ed on the Commission as regards the design and cont ent of the harmonised
label and the harmonised notice. Those powers should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU)
No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (15).
(30) In view of the minimum duration of two years of the legal guarantee of conf ormity as provided in Directive
(EU) 2019/771 and the fact that many product failures occur after that time, the trader ’s oblig ation to inform
consumers about the existence and duration of the producer ’s commercial guarantee of durability using a
harmonised label should only apply to commercial guarant ees of durability that are offered for a period long er than
two years. In addition, the harmonised label should also remind consumers of the existence of the lega l guarant ee of
conf ormity .
(31) In order to mak e it easier for consumers to take an informed transactional decision when compar ing goods before
concluding a contract, traders should inform consumers about the existen ce and duration of the producer ’s
commercial guarantee of durability for the entire good and not for specifi c components of the good.
(32) The producer and the seller should remain free to offer other types of commercial guarant ees and after-sales services.
However , the information provid ed to the consumer about other commercial guarant ees or services should not
confuse the consumer with regar d to the existen ce and duration of the commercial guarant ee of durability offered
at no additional cost by the producer , covering the entire good and with a duration of more than two years, and for
which a harmonised label is used.
(33) In order for consumers to make better-informed decisions and to promote competition between producers as
regards the durability of goods with digital elements, the traders selling those goods should inform consumers
about the minimum period during which the producer commits to provide software updat es for such goods,
whether expressed as a period of time or by referen ce to a date . Likewise, traders offer ing digital content and digital