File Name: 1_2024-02-28_RL_2024_825_GCD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:42
Original Size: 0.61 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 14 of 34
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2024/825/oj 5/16assess and repor t in 2024 on the application of Directive (EU) 2019/2161, including Article 6(2), point (c), of
Directive 2005/29/EC and whether those practices should be subject to more stringent requirements, including
prohibition in Annex I. The new provisions against greenwashing practices in this Directive should also apply to
such practices where versions of the same product are mark eted as being identical in differ ent Member States
despite having signif icant differences as refer red to in Article 6(2), point (c), of Directive 2005/29/EC.
(15) Presenting requirements that are impos ed by law on all products within the relevant product categor y on the Union
mark et, including impor ted products, as a distinctive feature of the trader ’s offer , should be prohibited in all
circumstances and thus added to the list in Annex I to Directive 2005/29/EC. This prohibition should apply , for
example, where a trader adver tises a given product as not including a specific chemical substance when that
substance is already forbidden by law for all products within that product categor y in the Union. Conv ersely , the
prohibition should not cover commercial practices promoting traders’ or products’ compl iance with legal
requirements that only apply to some products but not to other competing products of the same catego ry on the
Union market, such as products of non-U nion origin. It could be the case that certain products on the mark et are
required to compl y with certain legal requirements while other products in the same product catego ry are not
required to compl y with those requirements. For example, as regar ds fish products produced sustainably in
accordance with Union law, it would be allowe d to promote the sustainability charact eristics of those products that
compl y with Union lega l requirements, if fish products of third countr y origin offered on the Union mark et are not
required to compl y with those Union legal requirements.
(16) In order to imp rove the welf are of consumers, the amendments to Directive 2005/29/EC should also address several
practices associated with early obsolescence, including planned early obsolescence practices, understood as a
commercial policy involving deliberately planning or designing a product with a limite d lifes pan so that it
prematurely becomes obsolet e or non-functional after a certain period or after a predete rmined intensity of use.
Purchasin g products that are expect ed to last long er than they actually do causes consumer detr iment. Further more,
early obsolescence practices have an overall nega tive impact on the environment in the form of increased waste and
increased use of energy and mater ials. Theref ore, addressing information related to early obsolescence practices is
also likely to reduce the amount of waste, contr ibuting to a more sustainable consum ption.
(17) It should also be prohibit ed under Annex I to Directive 2005/29/EC to withhold information from consumers about
the fact that a software updat e will negatively impact the functioning of goods with digital elements or the use of
digital cont ent or digital services. In general, traders responsible for the development of software updates are
expecte d to have such information, while in other cases traders can rely on reliable information provided by, for
example, software developers, suppliers or compet ent national author ities. For example, when inviti ng consumers
to update the operating system on their smar tphone, the trader should not withhold information from the
consumer that such an update will negatively impa ct the functioning of any of the features of the smar tphone, such
as the batter y, the performance of certain applications or cause a complet e slowdown of the smar tphone. The
prohibition should apply to any update, including secur ity and functionality updat es. For updat es, including
secur ity update s, that are necessar y to keep the good, digital cont ent and digital service in conf ormity , Article 8 of