File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 214 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 214/284(f) do outcomes achieved through the channels accord with internationally recognised human rights?
(g) does the undertaking identify insights from the channels that support continuous learning in both improving
the channels and preventing future impacts?
(h) does the undertaking focus on dialogue with complainants as the means to reach agreed solutions, rather than seeking to unilaterally determine the outcome?
Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing
material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions
AR 28. It may take time to understand negative impacts and how the undertaking may be involved with them through its
value chain, as well as to identify appropriate responses and put them into practice. Therefore, the undertaking
shall consider:
(a) its general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts;
(b) its initiatives aimed at contributing to additional material positive impacts;
(c) how far it has progressed in its efforts during the reporting period; and
(d) its aims for continued improvement.
AR 29. Appropriate action can vary according to whether the undertaking causes or contributes to a material impact or
whether the material impact is directly linked to its own operations, products or services through a business
relationship.
AR 30. Given that material negative impacts affecting value chain workers that have occurred during the reporting period
may also be linked to entities or operations outside its direct control, the undertaking may disclose whether and
how it seeks to use its leverage in its business relationships to manage those impacts. This may include using
commercial leverage (for example, enforcing contractual requirements with business relationships or
implementing incentives), other forms of leverage within the relationship (such as providing training or capacity-
building on workers’ rights to entities with which the undertaking has a business relationships) or collaborative leverage with peers or other actors (such as initiatives aimed at responsible recruitment or ensuring workers
receive an adequate wage).
AR 31. When the undertaking discloses its participation in an industry or multi-stakeholder initiative as part of its actions
to address material negative impacts, the undertaking may disclose how the initiative, and its own involvement, is aiming to address the material impact concerned. It may disclose under ESRS S2-5 the relevant targets set by the
initiative and progress towards them.
AR 32. When disclosing whether and how the undertaking considers actual and potential impacts on value chain workers
in decisions to terminate business relationships and whether and how it seeks to address any negative impacts that
may result from termination, the undertaking may include examples.
AR 33. In disclosing how it tracks the effectiveness of its actions to manage material impacts during the reporting period,
the undertaking may disclose any lessons learned from the previous and current reporting periods.
AR 34. Processes used to track the effectiveness of actions can include internal or external auditing or verification, court
proceedings and/or related court decisions, impact assessments, measurement systems, stakeholder feedback, grievance mechanisms, external performance ratings, and benchmarking.
AR 35. Reporting on effectiveness is aimed at enabling the understanding of the links between actions taken by the
undertaking and the effective management of impacts. For example, to show the effectiveness of its actions to
support its suppliers with improving their working conditions, the undertaking may disclose survey feedback
from the suppliers’ workers showing that working conditions have improved since the time the undertaking
began working with those suppliers. Additional information that the undertaking may provide includes data
showing a decrease in the number of incidents identified through for instance, independent audits.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 215 of 284 ---