File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 134 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 137/284(e) conducted consultations with affected communities on sustainability assessments of shared biological resources
and ecosystems and, in particular:
i. when a site, a raw material production or sourcing is likely to negatively impact biodiversity and ecosystems,
the identification of the specific sites, raw materials production or sourcing with negative or potentially
negative impacts on affected communities;
ii. when affected communities are likely to be impacted, the undertaking, shall disclose how these communities were involved in the materiality assessment; and
iii. with respect to impacts on ecosystem services of relevance to affected communities in its own operations, the
undertaking shall indicate how negative impacts may be avoided. If these impacts are unavoidable, the undertaking may indicate its plans to minimise them and implement mitigation measures that aim to maintain the value and functionality of priority services.
18. The undertaking may disclose whether and how it has used biodiversity and ecosystems scenario analysis to inform
the identification and assessment of material risks and opportunities over short-, medium- and long-term time horizons. If the undertaking has used such scenario analysis, it may disclose the following information:
(a) why the considered scenarios were selected;
(b) how the considered scenarios are updated according to evolving conditions and emerging trends; and
(c) whether the scenarios are informed by expectations published by authoritative intergovernmental bodies, such as
the Convention for Biological Diversity and, where relevant, by scientific consensus, such as that expressed by the
Intergovernmental Science-policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES).
19. The undertaking shall specifically disclose:
(a) whether or not it has sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas and whether activities related to these
sites negatively affect these areas by leading to the deterioration of natural habitats and the habitats of species
and to the disturbance of the species for which a protected area has been designated; and
(b) whether it has been concluded that it is necessary to implement biodiversity mitigation measures, such as those
identified in: Directive 2009/147/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conservation of wild
birds; Council Directive 92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora; an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) as defined in Article 1(2), point (g), of Directive 2011/92/EU of the
European Parliament and of the Council (
76)on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private
projects on the environment; and for activities located in third countries, in accordance with equivalent national
provisions or international standards, such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standard
6: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources.
Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems
20. The undertaking shall describe its adopted policies to manage its material impacts, risks, dependencies, and
opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems.
21. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which the undertaking
has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or remediation of its material biodiversity
and ecosystem- related impacts, dependencies, risks and opportunities.
22. The disclosure required by paragraph 20 shall contain the information on the policies the undertaking has in place to
manage its material impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems in
accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters).
(76)Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the effects of certain
public and private projects on the environment (OJ L 26, 28.1.2012, p. 1).OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 138 of 284 ---