File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 182 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 183/284(f) keeps up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion that provide a transparent view of
opportunities for employees and their progression within the undertaking;
(g) puts in place grievance procedures to address complaints, handle appeals and provide recourse for employees
(especially in the context of negotiations and collective agreements) when discrimination is identified, and is
alert to formal structures and informal cultural issues that can prevent employees from raising concerns and
grievances; and
(h) has programs to promote access to skills development.
Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workforce and workers' representatives about impacts
AR 18. When describing what function or role has operational responsibility for such engagement and/or ultimate
accountability, the undertaking may disclose whether this is a dedicated role or function or part of a broader role
or function, and whether any capacity building activities have been offered to support the staff to undertake
engagement. If it cannot identify such a position or function, it may state that this is the case. This disclosure
could also be fulfilled by making reference to information disclosed according to ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the
administrative, management and supervisory bodies.
AR 19. When preparing the disclosures described in paragraph 27 b) and c), the following illustrations may be
considered:
(a) examples of stages at which engagement occurs are i) determining the approach to mitigation and ii)
evaluating the effectiveness of mitigation;
(b) for type of engagement, these could be participation, consultation and/or information;
(c) for the frequency of the engagement, information may be provided on whether engagement occurs on a regular basis, at certain points in a project or business process, (for example, when a new harvest season
begins or a new production line is opened), as well as whether it occurs in response to legal requirements and/or in response to stakeholder requests and whether the result of the engagement is being
integrated into the undertaking's decision-making processes; and
(d) for the role with operational responsibility, whether the undertaking requires relevant staff to have certain skills, or whether it provides training or capacity building to relevant staff to undertake engagement.
AR 20. Global Framework Agreements (GFA) serve to establish an ongoing relationship between a multinational enterprise and a Global Union Federation to ensure that the undertaking adheres to the same standards in every country in which it operates.
AR 21. To illustrate how the perspectives of its own workforce have informed specific decisions or activities, the
undertaking may provide examples from the current reporting period.
AR 22. Where the undertaking has agreements with national, European or international trade unions or works councils
related to the rights of people its own workforce, this can be disclosed to illustrate how the agreement enables
the undertaking to gain insight into the perspectives of such people.
AR 23. Where possible, the undertaking may disclose examples from the reporting period to illustrate how the
perspectives of its own workforce and workers' representatives have informed specific decisions or activities of
the undertaking.
AR 24. The undertaking shall consider the following aspects when fulfilling this Disclosure Requirement:
(a) The type of engagement (for example, information, consultation or participation) and its frequency (for
example, ongoing, quarterly, annually);OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 184 of 284 ---