File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 266 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 267/284Equal treatment The principle of equal treatment is a general principle of European law
which presupposes that comparable situations or parties in comparable
situations are treated in the same way. In the context of ESRS S1, the term
“equal treatment” also refers to the principle of non-discrimination,
according to which there shall be no direct or indirect discrimination
based on any ground such as sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion,
membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual
orientation.
Financial effects Effects from risks and opportunities that affect the undertaking’s financial
position, financial performance and cash flows over the short, medium or long term.
Financial materiality A sustainability matter is material from a financial perspective if it generates risks or opportunities that affect (or could reasonably be expected to affect)
the undertaking’s financial position, financial performance, cash flows, access to finance or cost of capital over the short, medium or long term.
Forced labour All work or service which is exacted from any person under the threat of penalty and for which the person has not offered himself or herself
voluntarily. The term encompasses all situations in which persons are
coerced by any means to perform work and includes both traditional
‘slave-like’ practices and contemporary forms of coercion where labour
exploitation is involved, which may include human trafficking and modern
slavery.
Fossil fuel Non-renewable carbon-based energy sources such as solid fuels, natural gas and oil.
Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) A manifestation of indigenous peoples ’ right to self-determine their
political, social, economic and cultural priorities. It constitutes three interrelated and cumulative rights of indigenous peoples: the right to be
consulted; the right to participate; and the right to their lands, territories and resources. FPIC pertains to indigenous peoples and is recognized
under international human rights law, notably the United Nations
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP).
Freshwater Groundwater and surface water, with a mean annual salinity of < 0,5 ‰ (i.e.,
the limit mentioned in Annex II of the Water Framework Directive).
GHG emission reduction Decrease in the undertaking’s Scope 1, 2, 3 or total GHG emissions at the
end of the reporting period, relative to emissions in the base year. Emission
reductions may result from, among others, energy efficiency, electrification,
suppliers' decarbonisation, electricity mix decarbonisation, sustainable
products development or changes in reporting boundaries or activities
(e.g., outsourcing, reduced capacities), provided they are achieved within
the undertaking's own operations and upstream and downstream value
chain. Removals and avoided emissions are not counted as emission
reductions.
GHG removal and storage (Anthropogenic) removals refer to the withdrawal of GHGs from the
atmosphere as a result of deliberate human activities. These include
enhancing biological anthropogenic sinks of CO2 and using chemical
engineering to achieve long-term removal and storage. Carbon capture and
storage (CCS) from industrial and energy-related sources, which alone does
not remove CO2 from the atmosphere, can remove atmospheric CO2 if it is OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 268 of 284 ---