File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:14
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 627 of 686
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 264/284and adapt to transition risks and physical risks. An undertaking’s climate
resilience includes both its strategic resilience and its operational resilience
to climate-related changes, developments or uncertainties associated with
climate change.
Climate-related opportunity Potential positive effects related to climate change for the undertaking.
Efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change can produce opportunities
for undertakings. Climate-related opportunities will vary depending on the
region, market, and industry where an undertaking operates.
Climate-related physical risk (Physical risk from climate change)Risks resulting from climate change that can be event-driven (acute) or from
longer-term shifts (chronic) in climate patterns.
Acute physical risks arise from particular hazards, especially weather-
related events such as storms, floods, fires or heatwaves. Chronic physical
risks arise from longer-term changes in the climate, such as temperature
changes, and their effects on rising sea levels, reduced water availability, biodiversity loss and changes in land and soil productivity.
Climate-related transition risk Risks that arise from the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient
economy. They typically include policy risks, legal risks, technology risks,
market risks and reputational risks.
Collective bargaining All negotiations which take place between an employer, a group of
employers or one or more employers' organisations, on the one hand, and
one or more trade unions or, in their absence, the representatives of the
workers duly elected and authorised by them in accordance with national
laws and regulations, on the other, for:
i.determining working conditions and terms of employment; and/or
ii.regulating relations between employers and workers; and/or regulating relations between employers or their organisations and a workers'
organisation or workers' organisations.
Confirmed incident (child or forced labour or human trafficking)Incident of child or forced labour or human trafficking that has been found
to be substantiated. Confirmed incidents do not include incidents of child
or forced labour or human trafficking that are still under investigation in the
reporting period.
Confirmed incident of corruption or briberyAn incident of corruption or bribery that has been found to be
substantiated. Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery do not
include incidents of corruption or bribery that are still under investigation
at the end of the reporting period. The determination of potential non-
compliance cases as substantiated may be made either by the undertaking’s
compliance officer or similar function or an authority. A determination as
substantiated by a court of law is not required.