File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 29 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

end to the principal actual and poten tial adverse impacts connected with their activities and identifies how
under takings address those adverse impacts. Impacts connected with an under taking’s activities include impacts
directly caused by the under taking, impa cts to which the under taking contr ibut es, and impacts which are other wise
linked to the under taking’s value chain. The due dilig ence process concer ns the whole value chain of the under taking
including its own operations, its products and services, its business relationships and its supply chains. In line with
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, an actual or poten tial adverse impact is to be considered
a principal impa ct where it ranks among the greate st impacts connected with the under taking’s activities based on:
the grav ity of the impact on people or the envi ronment ; the number of individuals that are or could be affected, or
the scale of damage to the environment ; and the ease with which the harm could be remediated , restor ing the
environment or affect ed people to their prior state.
(32) Directive 2013/34/EU does not require the disclosure of information on intangible resources other than intangible
assets recognised in the balance sheet. It is widely recognised that information on intangible assets and other
intangible factors, including internally generat ed intangible resources, is under repor ted, impeding the proper
assessment of an under taking’s development, performa nce and position, and the monitori ng of inve stments. To
enable investors to bette r understand the increasing gap between the accounting book value of man y under takings
and their market valuation, which is obser ved in man y sectors of the economy , adequate repor ting on intangible
resources should be required of all large under takings and all under takings, excep t micro-under takings, whose
secur ities are admitted to trading on a regulate d market in the Union. Nonetheless, certain information on
intangible resources is intrinsic to sustainability matt ers, and should theref ore be part of sustainability repor ting.
For examp le, information about employees’ skills, compet ences, exper ience, loyalty to the under taking and
motivation for impro ving processes, goods and services, is sustainability information rega rding social matters that
could also be considered as information on intangible resources. Like wise, information about the quality of the
relationships between the under taking and its stak eholders, including customer s, suppliers and communities
affected by the activities of the under taking, is sustainability information relevant to social or governance matte rs
that could also be considered as information on intangible resources. Such examples illustrate how in some cases it
is not possible to distinguish information on intangible resources from information on sustainability matt ers.
(33) Article 19a(1) and Article 29a(1) of Directive 2013/34/EU do not specify whether the information to be repor ted is
to be forward-looking or information about past performa nce. There is currently a lack of forward-looking
disclosures, which users of sustainability information especially value. Articles 19a and 29a of Directive
2013/34/EU should theref ore specify that the sustainability information repor ted is to include forward-looking and
retrospective information and both qualitative and quantitative information. Information should be based on
conclusive scientific evidence where appropr iate. Information should also be harmonized, comparable and based
on unif orm indicators where appropr iate, while allowing for repor ting that is specif ic to individual under takings
and does not endange r the commercial position of the under taking. Repor ted sustainability information should also
take into account shor t-, medium- and long-t erm time horizons and contain information about the under taking’s
whole value chain, including its own operations, its products and services, its business relationships and its supply
chain, as appropr iate. Information about the under taking’s whole value chain would include information relat ed to
its value chain within the Union and information that covers third countr ies if the under taking’s value chain extends
outside the Union. For the first three years of the application of the measures to be adop ted by the Member States in