File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 189 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 190/284AR 56. The definitions of permanent, temporary, non-guaranteed hours, full-time, and part-time employees differ
between countries. If the undertaking has employees in more than one country, it shall use the definitions as per
the national laws of the countries where the employees are based to calculate country-level data. The country-
level data shall then be added up to calculate total numbers, disregarding differences in national legal definitions.
Non-guaranteed hours employees are employed by the undertaking without a guarantee of a minimum or fixed
number of working hours. The employee may need to make themselves available for work as required, but the undertaking is not contractually obliged to offer the employee a minimum or fixed number of working hours
per day, week, or month. Casual employees, employees with zero-hour contracts, and on-call employees are
examples that fall under this category.
AR 57. Disclosing the number of employees at the end of the reporting period provides information for that point in
time, without capturing fluctuations during the reporting period. Disclosing these numbers in averages across the reporting period takes into account fluctuations during the reporting period.
AR 58. Quantitative data, such as the number of temporary or part-time employees, is unlikely to be sufficient on its
own. For example, a high proportion of temporary or part-time employees could indicate a lack of employment security for employees, but it could equally signal workplace flexibility when offered as a voluntary choice. For
this reason, the undertaking is required to disclose contextual information to help information users interpret
the data. The undertaking can explain the reasons for temporary employment. An example of such a reason is
the recruitment of employees to undertake work on a temporary or seasonal project or event. Another example
is the standard practice of offering a temporary contract (for example, six months) to new employees before an
offer of permanent employment is made. The undertaking may also explain the reasons for non-guaranteed
hours employment.
AR 59. For the own employee turnover calculation, the undertaking shall calculate the aggregate of the number of
employees who leave voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death in service. The undertaking shall use
this number for the numerator of the employee turnover rate and may determine the denominator used to calculate this rate and describe its methodology.
AR 60. Where data is not available for detailed information, the undertaking shall use an estimation of the employee
number or ratios, in accordance with ESRS 1, and clearly identify where the use of estimates has taken place.
Disclosure Requirement S1-7 – Characteristics of non-employees in the undertaking’s own workforce
AR 61. This Disclosure Requirement provides insight into the undertaking’s approach to employment, as well as the
scope and nature of impacts arising from its employment practices. It also provides contextual information that
aids an understanding of the information reported in other disclosures. This disclosure covers both individual contractors supplying labour to the undertaking (“self-employed people”) and workers provided by undertakings
primarily engaged in “employment activities” (NACE Code N78). If all the people performing work for the
undertaking are employees and the undertaking does not have any people in its workforce who are not
employees, this Disclosure Requirement is not material for the undertaking; notwithstanding, the undertaking may state this fact when disclosing the information required by Disclosure Requirement S1-6 as contextual information as this information can be relevant for the users of the Sustainability Statement.
AR 62. Examples of contractors (self-employed people) in the undertaking’s own workforce include: contractors hired by
the undertaking to perform work that would otherwise be carried out by an employee; contractors hired by the undertaking to perform work in a public area (for example, on a road, on the street); and contractors hired by
the undertaking to deliver the work/service directly at the workplace of a client of the organization. Examples of
people employed by a third party engaged in ‘employment activities’ whose work is under the direction of the