File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 55 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 55/284Minimum disclosure requirement – Metrics MDR-M – Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters
73. The undertaking shall apply the requirements for the content of disclosures in this provision when it discloses on the
metrics it has in place with regard to each material sustainability matter .
74. The objective of this Minimum Disclosure Requirement is to provide an understanding of the metrics the
undertaking uses to track the effectiveness of its actions to manage material sustainability matters.
75. The undertaking shall disclose any metrics that it uses to evaluate performance and effectiveness, in relation to a
material impact, risk or opportunity.
76. Metrics shall include those defined in ESRS, as well as metrics identified on an entity-specific basis, whether taken
from other sources or developed by the undertaking itself.
77. For each metric, the undertaking shall:
(a) disclose the methodologies and significant assumptions behind the metric, including the limitations of the
methodologies used;
(b) disclose whether the measurement of the metric is validated by an external body other than the assurance
provider and, if so, which body;
(c) label and define the metric using meaningful, clear and precise names and descriptions;
(d) when currency is specified as the unit of measure, use the presentation currency of its financial statements.
Minimum Disclosure Requirement – Targets MDR-T – Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets
78. The undertaking shall apply the requirements for the content of disclosures in this provision when it discloses
information about the targets it has set with regard to each material sustainability matter.
79. The objective of this Minimum Disclosure Requirement is to provide for each material sustainability matter an
understanding of:
(a) whether and how the undertaking tracks the effectiveness of its actions to address material impacts, risks and
opportunities, including the metrics it uses to do so;
(b) measurable time-bound outcome-oriented targets set by the undertaking to meet the policy’s objectives, defined
in terms of expected results for people, the environment or the undertaking regarding material impacts, risks and
opportunities;
(c) the overall progress towards the adopted targets over time;
(d) in the case that the undertaking has not set measurable time-bound outcome-oriented targets, whether and how
it nevertheless tracks the effectiveness of its actions to address material impacts, risks and opportunities and
measures the progress in achieving its policy objectives; and
(e) whether and how stakeholders have been involved in target setting for each material sustainability matter.
80. The undertaking shall disclose the measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound targets on material sustainability
matters it has set to assess progress. For each target, the disclosure shall include the following information:
(a) a description of the relationship of the target to the policy objectives;
(b) the defined target level to be achieved, including, where applicable, whether the target is absolute or relative and
in which unit it is measured;
(c) the scope of the target, including the undertaking’s activities and/or its upstream and/or downstream value chain
where applicable and geographical boundaries;OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 56 of 284 ---