File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 173 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 176/28475. If not all of its employees are covered by social protection in accordance with paragraph 72, the undertaking shall in
addition disclose the countries where employees do not have social protection with regard to one or more of the
types of events listed in paragraph 72 and for each of those countries the types of employees who do not have social
protection with regard to each applicable major life event.
76. The undertaking may also disclose the information specified in this disclosure requirement with regard to non-
employees in its workforce.
Disclosure Requirement S1-12– Persons with disabilities
77. The undertaking shall disclose the percentage of its own employees with disabilities.
78. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which persons with
disabilities are included among the undertaking’s employees.
79. The undertaking shall disclose the percentage of persons with disabilities amongst its employees subject to legal
restrictions on the collection of data.
80. The undertaking may disclose the percentage of employees with disabilities with a breakdown by gender.
Disclosure Requirement S1-13 – Training and skills development metrics
81. The undertaking shall disclose the extent to which training and skills development is provided to its
employees.
82. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the training and skills development
-related activities that have been offered to employees, within the context of continuous professional growth, to
upgrade employees’ skills and facilitate continued employability.
83. The disclosure required by paragraph 81 shall include:
(a) the percentage of employees that participated in regular performance and career development reviews; such
information shall be broken down by gender;
(b) the average number of training hours per employee and by gender.
84. The undertaking may disclose breakdowns by employee category for the percentage of employees that participated in
regular performance and career development and for the average number of training hours per employee.
85. The undertaking may also disclose the information specified in this disclosure requirement with regard to non-
employees in its workforce.
Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics
86. The undertaking shall disclose information on the extent to which its own workforce is covered by its
health and safety management system and the number of incidents associated with work-related injuries, ill
health and fatalities of its own workforce. In addition, it shall disclose the number of fatalities as a result of
work-related injuries and work-related ill health of other workers working on the undertaking’s sites.
87. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to allow an understanding of the coverage, quality and performance
of the health and safety management system established to prevent work-related injuries.
88. The disclosure required by paragraph 86 shall include the following information, where applicable broken down
between employees and non-employees in the undertaking’s own workforce:
(a) the percentage of people in its own workforce who are covered by the undertaking’s health and safety
management system based on legal requirements and/or recognised standards or guidelines;OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 177 of 284 ---