File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 244 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 243/284consumers and/or end-users that have used such channels and their levels of satisfaction with the process and
outcomes. To illustrate the usage level of such channels, the undertaking may disclose the number of complaints
received from consumers and/or end-users during the reporting period.
AR 24. In describing the effectiveness of channels for consumers and/or end-users to raise concerns, the undertaking may
be guided by the following questions, based on the “effectiveness criteria for nonjudicial grievance mechanisms”,
as laid out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The below considerations may be applied
on an individual channel basis or for the collective system of channels:
(a) do the channels hold legitimacy by providing appropriate accountability for their fair conduct and building
stakeholder trust?
(b) are the channels known and accessible to stakeholders?
(c) do the channels have known procedures, set timeframes and clarity on the processes?
(d) do the channels ensure reasonable access to sources of information, advice and expertise?
(e) do the channels offer transparency by providing sufficient information both to complainants and where applicable, to meet any public interest at stake?
(f) do the outcomes achieved from the channels accord with internationally recognised human rights?
(g) does the undertaking identify insights from the channels that support continuous learning in both improving the channels and preventing future impacts?
(h) does the undertaking focus on dialogue with complainants as the means to reach agreed solutions, rather than
seeking to unilaterally determine the outcome?
For more information, see Principle 31 of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end- users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of
those actions
AR 25. It may take time to understand negative impacts and how the undertaking may be involved with them through its
downstream value chain, as well as to identify appropriate responses and put them into practice). Therefore, the
undertaking shall consider:
(a) Its general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts;
(b) its initiatives aimed at contributing to additional material positive impacts;
(c) how far it has progressed in its efforts during the reporting period; and
(d) its aims for continued improvement.
AR 26. Appropriate action can vary according to whether the undertaking causes or contributes to a material impact, or
whether the material impact is directly linked to its own operations, products or services through a business
relationship.
AR 27. Given that material negative impacts affecting consumers and/or end-users that have occurred during the
reporting period may also be linked to entities or operations outside its direct control, the undertaking may
disclose whether and how it seeks to use leverage with relevant business relationships to manage those impacts.
This may include using commercial leverage (for example, enforcing contractual requirements with business
relationships or implementing incentives), other forms of leverage within the relationship (such as providing training or capacity-building on proper product use or sale practices to business relationships) or collaborative
leverage with peers or other actors (such as initiatives aimed at responsible marketing or product safety).OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 244 of 284 ---