File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 59 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

intended users of that information. Although the objective is to have a similar level of assurance for financial and
sustainability repor ting, the absence of a commonly agreed standard for the assurance of sustainability repor ting
creat es the risk of diffe rent understandings and expectations of what a reasonable assurance enga gement would
consist of for different categor ies of sustainability information, especially with regar d to forward-looking and
qualitative disclosures.
Theref ore, a progressive approach to enhancing the level of the assurance required for sustainability information
should be considered, starting with an oblig ation on the statutor y auditor or audit firm to express an opinion about
the compliance of the sustainability repor ting with Union requirements based on a limited assurance engag ement.
That opinion should cover the compl iance of the sustainability repor ting with Union sustainability repor ting
standards, the process carried out by the under taking to identify the information repor ted pursuant to the
sustainability repor ting standards and compl iance with the requirement to mark up sustainability repor ting. The
auditor should also assess whether the under taking’s repor ting complies with the repor ting requirements of
Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. To ensure a common understanding and common expectations of what a
reasonable assurance engag ement would consist of, the statut ory auditor or audit firm should be required to express
an opinion based on a reasonable assurance engag ement about the compliance of the sustainability repor ting with
Union requirements, when the Commission adopts assurance standards for reasonable assurance of sustainability
repor ting by means of delegat ed acts no later than 1 October 2028 , following an assessment to deter mine if
reasonable assurance is feasible for auditors and under takings.
The gradual approach from limited assurance engag ements to reasonable assurance engag ements would also allow
for the progressive development of the assurance mark et for sustainability information, and of under takings’
repor ting practices. Finally , such gradual approach would phase in the increase in costs for repor ting under takings,
given that assurance of sustainability repor ting based on a reasonable assurance engag ement is more costly than
assurance of sustainability repor ting based on a limite d assurance engag ement. Under takings subject to
sustainability repor ting requirements should be able to decide to have an assurance opinion on their sustainability
repor ting based on a reasonable assurance engag ement if they so wish, and in such cases they should be deemed to
have compl ied with the oblig ation to have an opinion based on a limited assurance engag ement. The opinion based
on a reasonable assurance engag ement concer ning forward-looking information is only an assurance that such
information has been prepared in accordance with applicable standards.
(61) Statut ory auditors or audit firms already verify the financial statements and the management repor t. The assurance
of sustainability repor ting by the statutor y auditors or audit firms would help to ensure the connectivity between,
and consiste ncy of, financia l and sustainability information, which is particularly important for users of
sustainability information. However , there is a risk of further concentration of the audit mark et, which could risk
the independence of auditors and increase audit fees or fees relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
Consider ing the key role of statut ory auditors when providin g assurance of sustainability repor ting and ensur ing
reliable sustainability information, the Commission has announced that it will act to further enhance audit quality
and to create a more open and diversif ied audit market, which are the conditions for the successful application of
this amending Directive. In addition, it is desirable to offer under takings a broader choice of independent assurance
services provid ers for the assurance of sustainably repor ting. Member States should theref ore be allowed to accredit
independent assurance services providers in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European
Parliament and of the Council (34)to provid e an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, which should be
published together with the management repor t. In addition, Member State s should be given the option of allowing
(34)Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the requirements for