File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 224 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 225/284Appendix A
Application Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of the ESRS S3 Affected communities. It supports the application of the disclosure
requirements set out in this standard and has the same authority as the other parts of the standard.
Objective
AR 1. The overview of social and human rights matters provided in paragraph 2 is not meant to imply that all of these
issues should be disclosed in each Disclosure Requirement in this Standard. Rather, it provides a list of matters
that the undertaking shall consider in its materiality assessment (ref. to ESRS 1 chapter 3 Double materiality as the
basis for sustainability disclosures and ESRS 2 IRO-1) related to affected communities and, as appropriate, disclose as
material impacts, risks and opportunities within the scope of this Standard.
AR 2. In addition to the issues listed in paragraph 2, the undertaking may also consider disclosing information about
other issues relevant to a material impact for a shorter period of time, for instance initiatives regarding the
impacts on communities related to the undertaking’s operations due to extreme and sudden weather conditions.
ESRS 2 General Disclosures
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
AR 3. Disclosure Requirement ESRS 2 SBM-2 requires the undertaking to provide an understanding of if and how it
considers the role that its strategy and business model may play in creating, exacerbating or mitigating significant
material impacts on affected communities, and whether and how the business model and strategy are adapted to
address such material impacts.
AR 4. While affected communities may not be engaging with the undertaking at the level of its strategy or business
model, their views can inform the undertaking’s assessment of its strategy and business model. The undertaking
may disclose the views of affected communities and affected communities' representatives.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
AR 5. Impacts on affected communities can originate in the undertaking’s strategy or business model in a number of
different ways. For example, impacts may relate to the undertaking’s value proposition (such as, construction or
commencement of projects with timelines that do not allow sufficient time for consultation with groups affected
by the projects), its value chain (for example, land-use in countries in which ownership is often contested or
records are unreliable or in which land-users such as indigenous peoples are unrecognised), or its cost structure
and the revenue model (such as, aggressive strategies to minimise taxation, particularly with respect to operations
in developing countries).
AR 6. Impacts on affected communities that originate in the strategy or business model can also bring material risks to
the undertaking. For example, where the undertaking’s strategy involves moving into higher risk geographies in
pursuit of certain commodities, and if affected communities resist its presence or object to its local practices, this
may create extensive and costly delays, and affect the undertaking’s ability to secure future land concessions or
permits. Similarly, if the undertaking’s business model relies on intensive water extraction at its plants, to the
extent that it affects access to water for communities’ consumption, hygiene and livelihoods, this may result in
reputationally-damaging boycotts, complaints and lawsuits.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 226 of 284 ---