File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:25
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 43 of 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(h) increases prepar ing for the re-use and recy cling of waste ;
(i) increases the development of the wast e management infrastr ucture needed for prevention, for prepar ing for re-use and
for recy cling, while ensur ing that the reco vered mate rials are recy cled as high-quality secondar y raw mat erial input in
production, thereby avoiding downcy cling;
(j) minimises the incineration of waste and avoids the disposal of waste, including landfi lling, in accordance with the
principles of the wast e hierarc hy;
(k) avoids and reduces litter; or
(l) enables any of the activities listed in points (a) to (k) of this paragraph in accordance with Article 16.
2. The Commission shall adop t a delegat ed act in accordance with Article 23 to:
(a) supplement paragraph 1 of this Article by establishing technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under
which a specific economic activity qualif ies as contr ibuting substantially to the transition to a circular econom y; and
(b) supplement Article 17 by establishing, for each relevant environmental objective, technical screening criteria for
deter mining whether an economic activity in respect of which technical screening criteria have established pursuant to
point (a) of this paragraph causes signif icant harm to one or more of those objectives.
3. Prior to adopt ing the delegat ed act refer red to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall consult the
Platf orm refer red to in Article 20 regarding the technical screening criteria refer red to in paragraph 2 of this Article.
4. The Commission shall establish the technical screening criteria refer red to in paragraph 2 of this Article in one
delegat ed act, taking into account the requirements of Article 19.
5. The Commission shall adopt the delega ted act refer red to in paragraph 2 by 31 December 2021, with a view to
ensur ing its application from 1 Januar y 2023.
Article 14
Subs tantial contr ibution to pollution prev ention and control
1. An economic activity shall qualify as contr ibuting substantially to pollution prevention and control where that
activity contr ibut es substantially to environmental prot ection from pollution by:
(a) preventing or, where that is not practicable, reducing pollutant emissions into air, wate r or land, other than greenhouse
gasses;
(b) impro ving levels of air, water or soil quality in the areas in whic h the economic activity takes place whilst minimising
any adverse impact on, human health and the envi ronment or the risk thereof;
(c) preventing or minimising any adverse impact on human health and the envi ronment of the production, use or disposal
of chemicals;
(d) cleaning up litter and other pollution; or
(e) enabling any of the activities listed in points (a) to (d) of this paragraph in accordance with Article 16.
2. The Commission shall adop t a delegat ed act in accordance with Article 23 to:
(a) supplement paragraph 1 of this Article by establishing technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under
which a specific economic activity qualif ies as contr ibuting substantially to pollution prevention and control; and
(b) supplement Article 17 by establishing, for each relevant environmental objective, technical screening criteria for
deter mining whether an economic activity in respect of which technical screening criteria have been established
pursuant to point (a) of this paragraph causes signif icant harm to one or more of those objectives. EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Union 22.6.2020                                                                                                                                         L 198/33   

--- Page 22 of 31 ---