File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 218 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 219/284Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
7. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-2, paragraph 43, the undertaking shall disclose how the views, interests, and rights
of affected communities, including respect for their human rights (and their rights as indigenous peoples, where
applicable), inform its strategy and business model. Affected communities are a key group of affected stakeholders.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model
8. When responding to ESRS 2 SBM-3 paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose:
(a) whether and how actual and potential impacts on affected communities as identified in ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description
of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: (i) originate from or are connected to the
undertaking’s strategy and business models, and (ii) inform and contribute to adapting the undertaking’s strategy
and business model; and
(b) the relationship between its material risks and opportunities arising from impacts and dependencies on affected
communities and its strategy and business model.
9. When fulfilling the requirements of paragraph 48, the undertaking shall disclose whether all affected communities
who are likely to be materially impacted by the undertaking, including impacts that are connected with the
undertaking’s own operations and value chain, including through its products or services, as well as through its
business relationships, are included in the scope of its disclosure under ESRS 2. In addition, the undertaking shall provide the following information:
(a) a brief description of the types of communities subject to material impacts by its own operations or through its
upstream and downstream value chain, and specify whether they are:
i. communities living or working around the undertaking’s operating sites, factories, facilities or other physical
operations, or more remote communities affected by activities at those sites (for example by downstream
water pollution);
ii. communities along the undertaking’s value chain (for example, those affected by the operations of suppliers ’
facilities or by the activities of logistics or distribution providers);
iii. communities at one or both endpoints of the value chain (for example, at the point of extraction of metals or
minerals or harvesting of commodities, or communities around waste or recycling sites);
iv. communities of indigenous peoples.
(b) in the case of material negative impacts, whether they are either (i) widespread or systemic in contexts where the
undertaking operates or has sourcing or other business relationships (for example, marginalised populations
suffering impacts on their health and quality of life in a highly industrialised area), or (ii) related to individual
incidents in the undertaking’s own operations (e.g., a toxic waste spill affecting a community’s access to clean
drinking water) or in a specific business relationship (e.g., a peaceful protest by communities against business operations that was met with a violent response from the undertaking’s security services). This includes consideration of impacts on affected communities that may arise from the transition to greener and climate-
neutral operations. Potential impacts include impacts associated with innovation and restructuring, closure of
mines, increased mining of minerals needed for the transition to a sustainable economy and solar panel
production;
(c) in the case of material positive impacts, a brief description of the activities that result in the positive impacts (for
example, capacity-building to support more and new forms of local livelihoods) and the types of communities
that are positively affected or could be positively affected; the undertaking may also disclose whether the
positive impacts occur in specific countries or regions; and
(d) any material risks and opportunities for the business arising from impacts and dependencies on affected
communities.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 220 of 284 ---