File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 120 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(c) in paragraph 2, the followi ng subparagraph is added:
‘The register shall indicate whether third-countr y audit entities as refer red to in the first subparagraph are
registere d for carrying out the statut ory audit, the assurance of sustainability repor ting, or both.’;
(12) Article 24b is amended as follo ws:
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the followi ng:
‘1. Member States shall ensure that, when the statutor y audit is carried out by an audit firm, that audit firm
designates at least one key audit partner . The audit firm shall provi de the key audit partner(s) with suffi cient
resources and with personnel that have the necessar y compet ence and capabilities to carry out his, her or its
duties appropr iately.
Member State s shall ensure that, when the assurance of sustainability repor ting is carried out by an audit firm,
that audit firm designates at least one key sustainability partner , who may be (one of) the key audit partner(s).
The audit firm shall provide the key sustainability partner(s) with suffi cient resources and with personnel that
have the necessar y compet ence and capabilities to carry out his, her or its duties appropr iately.
Secur ing audit and assurance quality , independence and compet ence shall be the main criteria when the audit
firm selects the key audit partner(s) and, where applicable, the key sustainability partner(s) to be designated.
The key audit partner(s) shall be actively involved in the carrying-out of the statut ory audit. The key sustainability
partner shall be actively involved in the carrying-out of the assurance of sustainability repor ting.’;
(b) the followi ng paragraph is inser ted:
‘2a. When carrying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting, the statutor y auditor shall devot e sufficient
time to the enga gement and shall assign sufficient resources to enable him or her to carry out his or her duties
appropr iately.’;
(c) in paragraph 4, points (b) and (c) are replaced by the followi ng:
‘(b) in the case of an audit firm, the name(s) of the key audit partner(s) and, where applicable, the name(s) of the
key sustainability partner(s);
(c) the fees charged for the statut ory audit, the fees charged for the assurance of sustainability repor ting and the
fees charg ed for other services in any financial year.’;
(d) the followi ng paragraph is inser ted:
‘5a. A statutor y auditor or an audit firm shall create an assurance file for each assurance engag ement
concer ning sustainability repor ting.
The statut ory auditor or the audit firm shall document at least the data recorded pursuant to Article 22b as
regards the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
The statutor y auditor or the audit firm shall retain any other data and documents that are of importance in
suppor t of the assurance repor t on sustainability repor ting referred to in Article 28a and for monitori ng
compliance with this Directive and other applicable legal requirements as regards the assurance of sustainability
repor ting.
The assurance file shall be closed no later than 60 days after the date of signature of the assurance repor t on
sustainability repor ting refer red to in Article 28a.
Where the same statut ory auditor carries out the statut ory audit of annual financial statements and the assurance
of sustainability repor ting, the assurance file may be included in the audit file.’;EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Union 16.12.2022 L 322/67  

--- Page 54 of 66 ---