File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 243 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 242/284AR 16. When preparing the disclosures described in paragraph 20 b) and c), the following illustrations may be considered:
(a) for stage(s) at which engagement occurs, examples could be in determining mitigation approaches or in
evaluating their effectiveness;
(b) for type of engagement, these could be participation, consultation and/or information;
(c) for the frequency of the engagement, information may be provided on whether engagement occurs on a
regular basis, at certain points in a project or business process, as well as whether it occurs in response to legal
requirements and/or in response to stakeholder requests and whether the result of the engagement is being
integrated into the undertaking's decision-making processes; and
(d) for the role with operational responsibility, whether the undertaking requires relevant staff to have certain
skills, or whether it provides training or capacity building to relevant staff to undertake engagement.
AR 17. To illustrate how the perspectives of consumers and/or end-users have informed specific decisions or activities of
the undertaking, the undertaking may provide examples from the current reporting period.
Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to
raise concerns
AR 18. In fulfilling the requirements set out by the disclosure criteria of ESRS S4-3, the undertaking may be guided by the
content of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises focused on remediation and grievance mechanisms.
AR 19. Channels for raising concerns or needs, include grievance mechanisms, hotlines, dialogue processes or other
means through which consumers and/or end-users or their legitimate representatives can raise concerns about
impacts or explain needs that they would like the undertaking to address. This could include channels provided by
the undertaking directly and is to be disclosed in addition to any other mechanisms the undertaking may use to
gain insight into the management of impacts on consumers and/or end-users, such as compliance audits. Where the undertaking is relying solely on information about the existence of such channels provided by its business
relationships to answer this requirement, it may state that.
AR 20. To provide greater insight into the information covered in ESRS S4-3, the undertaking may provide insight into
whether and how consumers and/or end-users that may be affected are able to access channels at the level of the
undertaking they are affected by, in relation to each material impact.
AR 21. Third party mechanisms could include those operated by the government, NGOs, industry associations and other
collaborative initiatives. With regard to the scope of these mechanisms, the undertaking may disclose whether
these are accessible to all consumers and/or end-users who may be potentially or actually materially impacted by
the undertaking, or individuals or organisations acting on their behalf or who are otherwise in a position to be aware of negative impacts, and through which consumers and/or end-users (or individuals or organisations acting
on their behalf or who are otherwise in a position to be aware of negative impacts), can raise complaints or
concerns related to the undertaking’s own activities.
AR 22. In relation to the protection of individuals that use the mechanisms against the retaliation, the undertaking may
describe whether it treats grievances confidentially and with respect to the rights of privacy and data protection;
and whether they allow for consumer and/or end-users to use them anonymously (for example, through
representation by a third party).
AR 23. In disclosing whether and how the undertaking knows that consumers and/or end-users are aware of and trust any
of these channels, the undertaking may provide relevant and reliable data about the effectiveness of these channels
from the perspective of consumers and/or end-users themselves. Examples of sources of information are surveys of OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 243 of 284 ---