File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 71 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

out in Article 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC in order to table draf t resolutions to be adopt ed in the general meeting,
requir ing that, firstly , an accredit ed third party that does not belong to the same audit firm or network as the
statut ory auditor or audit firm carrying out the statut ory audit prepare a repor t on certain elements of the
sustainability repor ting and, secondly , that such repor t be made available to the general meeting.
For under takings subject to the sustainability repor ting requirements introduced by this amending Directive and that
do not fall within the scope of Article 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC, shareholders which represent more than 5 % of the
votin g rights or 5 % of the capital of the under taking, acting individually or collectively , should also be given the
right to table a draf t resolution to be adopt ed in the general meeting, requir ing that, firstly , an accredite d third party
that does not belong to the same audit firm or netw ork as the statut ory auditor or audit firm carrying out the
statut ory audit prepare a repor t on certain elements of the sustainability repor ting and, secondly , that such repor t
be made available to the general meeting.
(76) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member State s to ensure that each public-interest entity has an audit committee, and
specifi es its tasks with regard to the statut ory audit. That audit committee should be assigned with certain tasks with
regard to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Those tasks should include the obligation to inform the
administrative or super visor y body of the public-inte rest entity of the outcome of the assurance of sustainability
repor ting, and to explain how the audit committee contr ibut ed to the integr ity of sustainability repor ting and what
the role of the audit committee was in that process. Member States should be able to allow functions assigned to the
audit committee relating to sustainability repor ting and relating to the assurance of sustainability repor ting, to be
performe d by the administrative or super visor y body as a whole or by a dedicated body established by the
administrative or super visor y body .
(77) Directive 2006/43/EC contains requirements for registration and oversight of third-countr y auditors and audit
entities. To ensure that a consistent framewor k exists for the work of auditors in both the statutor y audit and the
assurance of sustainability repor ting, it is necessar y to exte nd those requirements to the assurance of sustainability
repor ting.
(78) Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (37)applies to statut ory auditors and
audit firms carrying out statutor y audits of public-interest entities. To ensure the independence of the statutor y
auditor when carrying out a statut ory audit, that Regulation establishes a limit concer ning the fees for other services
that the statutor y auditor can obtain. It is impor tant to clarify that the assurance of sustainability repor ting should
not count in the calculation of that limit. In addition, Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 prohibits the provision of
certain non-audit services over certain periods when the statut ory auditor is carrying out the statutor y audit.
Services related to the preparation of sustainability repor ting, including any consulting services, should also be
considered as prohibit ed services over the period prescr ibed in Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The prohibition of
the provision of such services should apply in all cases where the statutor y auditor carries out the statutor y audit of
financial statements.
To ensure the independence of the statut ory auditor , certain non-audit services should also be prohibit ed when the
statut ory auditor is carrying out the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 requires
statut ory auditors to repor t irregular ities to the audite d entity and, under certain circumstances, to author ities
designate d by the Member States as responsible for investigating such irregular ities. Such oblig ation should also be
extende d, as appropr iate, to statutor y auditors and audit firms as regards their work on the assurance of