File Name: 1_2020-06-18_VO_2020_852_TAXAllg_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:25
Original Size: 0.73 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 40 of 54
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(d) switch ing to the use of sustainably sourced renewable mater ials;
(e) increasing the use of environmentally safe carbon capture and utilisation (CCU) and carbon capture and storag e (CCS)
technologies that deliver a net reduction in greenhouse gas emissions;
(f) strengthening land carbon sink s, including through avoiding deforestation and forest degradation, restoration of
forests, sustainable management and restoration of croplands, grasslands and wetlands, afforestation, and rege nerative
agriculture;
(g) establishing energy infrastr ucture required for enabling the decarbonisation of energy systems;
(h) producing clean and efficient fuels from renewable or carbon-neutral sources; or
(i) enabling any of the activities listed in points (a) to (h) of this paragraph in accordance with Article 16.
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, an economic activity for which there is no technologically and economically feasible
low-carbon altern ative shall qualify as contr ibuting substantially to climat e change mitigation where it suppor ts the
transition to a climat e-neutral econom y consistent with a pathwa y to limit the temperature increase to 1,5 0C abov e pre-
industr ial levels, including by phasing out greenhouse gas emissions, in particular emissions from solid fossil fuels, and
where that activity :
(a) has greenhouse gas emission levels that correspond to the best performa nce in the sector or industr y;
(b) does not hamper the development and deplo yment of low-carbon alternatives; and
(c) does not lead to a lock-in of carbon-inten sive assets, consider ing the economic lifetime of those assets.
For the purpose of this paragraph and the establishment of technical screening criteria pursuant to Article 19, the
Commission shall assess the poten tial contr ibution and feasibility of all relevant existing technologies.
3. The Commission shall adop t a delegat ed act in accordance with Article 23 to:
(a) supplement paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article by establishing technical screening criteria for deter mining the
conditions under whic h a specifi c economic activity qualifi es as contr ibuting substantially to climate change
mitigation; and
(b) supplement Article 17 by establishing, for each relevant environmental objective, technical screening criteria for
deter mining whether an economic activity in respect of which technical screening criteria have been established
pursuant to point (a) of this paragraph causes signif icant harm to one or more of those objectives.
4. Prior to adopt ing the delegat ed act refer red to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the Commission shall consult the
Platf orm refer red to in Article 20 regarding the technical screening criteria refer red to in paragraph 3 of this Article.
5. The Commission shall establish the technical screening criteria refer red to in paragraph 3 of this Article in one
delegat ed act, taking into account the requirements of Article 19.
6. The Commission shall adopt the delega ted act refer red to in paragraph 3 by 31 December 2020, with a view to
ensur ing its application from 1 Januar y 2022.
Article 11
Subst antial contr ibution to climate change adaptat ion
1. An economic activity shall qualify as contr ibuting substantially to climat e chang e adapt ation where that activity :
(a) includes adaptation solutions that either substantially reduce the risk of the adverse impa ct of the current climat e and
the expected future climat e on that economic activity or substantially reduce that adverse impact, without increasing
the risk of an adverse impact on people, nature or assets; or
(b) provides adap tation solutions that, in addition to satisfying the conditions set out in Article 16, contr ibut e substantially
to preventing or reducing the risk of the adverse impact of the current climat e and the expected future climate on
people, nature or assets, without increasing the risk of an adverse impact on other people, nature or assets. EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Union L 198/30                                                                                                                                         22.6.2020   

--- Page 19 of 31 ---