File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:03
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 862 of 966
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(3) Sustainable use and protection of
water and marine resources  The activity complies with the criteria set out in Appendix B to this 
Annex.  
(4) Transition to a circular economy  At least 70 % (by weight) of the non-hazardous construction and demo ­
lition waste (excluding naturally occurring material defined in
category 17 05 04 in the European List of Waste established by
Decision 2000/532/EC) generated on the construction site is prepared
for reuse, recycling and other material recovery, including backfilling oper ­
ations using waste to substitute other materials, in accordance with the
waste hierarchy and the EU Construction and Demolition Waste
Management Protocol (  565  ). Operators limit waste generation in processes 
related construction and demolition, in accordance with the EU
Construction and Demolition Waste Management Protocol and taking
into account best available techniques and using selective demolition to
enable removal and safe handling of hazardous substances and facilitate
reuse and high-quality recycling by selective removal of materials, using
available sorting systems for construction and demolition waste.  
(5) Pollution prevention and control  Measures are taken to reduce noise, vibration, dust and pollutant emissions 
during construction maintenance works.  
(6) Protection and restoration of
biodiversity and ecosystems  The activity complies with the criteria set out in Appendix D to this 
Annex.  
7.  CONSTRUCTION AND REAL ESTATE  
7.1.  Construction of new buildings  
Description of the activity  
Development of building projects for residential and non-residential buildings by bringing together financial,
technical and physical means to realise the building projects for later sale as well as the construction of
complete residential or non-residential buildings, on own account for sale or on a fee or contract basis.  
The economic activities in this category could be associated with several NACE codes, in particular F41.1 and
F41.2, including also activities under F43, in accordance with the statistical classification of economic activities
established by Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006.  
Technical screening criteria  
Substantial contribution to climate change adaptation  
1. The economic activity has implemented physical and non-physical solutions (‘adaptation solutions’) that
substantially reduce the most important physical climate risks that are material to that activity.
2. The physical climate risks that are material to the activity have been identified from those listed in
Appendix A to this Annex by performing a robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment with the
following steps:
(a) screening of the activity to identify which physical climate risks from the list in Appendix A to this Annex
may affect the performance of the economic activity during its expected lifetime;