File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 17 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

as centralised waste water treatment systems, those technical screening criteria should take into account absolute
performance and relative performance improvement targets in relation to energy consumption and alternative
metrics, where relevant, such as leakage levels in water supply systems.  
(33)  Transport operations consume one third of all energy in the Union and account for approximately 23 % of total 
direct greenhouse gas emissions in the Union. Decarbonising the transport fleet and infrastructure can therefore
play a central role in climate change mitigation. Technical screening criteria for the transport sector should focus
on reducing the main emission sources from that sector, while also considering the need to shift the transport of
people and goods to lower emission modes and for the creation of an infrastructure that enables clean mobility.
Technical screening criteria for the transport sector should therefore focus on the performance within one
transport mode, while also taking into account the performance of that transport mode in comparison with
other transport modes.  
(34)  Given their potential to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and thus contribute to greening the transport sector, 
maritime shipping and aviation constitute important transport modes for the transition to a low-carbon economy.
According to the communication from the Commission of 9 December 2020 ‘Sustainable and Smart Mobility
Strategy– putting European transport on track for the future’ (  13 ), zero emission vessels are expected to become 
ready for market by 2030. According to that strategy, large zero-emission aircrafts are expected to become ready
for market by 2035 for short distance, while for longer distance decarbonisation is expected to rely on renewable
and low-carbon fuels. Separate studies have also been conducted on sustainable financing criteria for those sectors.
Therefore, maritime shipping should be considered as a transitional economic activity as referred to in Article 10(2)
of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. Shipping is one of the least carbon intensive ways to transport goods. To ensure
equal treatment of shipping in comparison with other modes of transport, technical screening criteria for maritime
transport should be established and should be applicable until the end of 2025. It will however be necessary to
further assess maritime shipping and, where appropriate, to establish technical screening criteria for maritime
shipping applicable as of 2026. It will also be necessary to further assess aviation and, where appropriate, to
establish relevant technical screening criteria. Furthermore, the technical screening criteria should be established for
low carbon transport infrastructure for certain modes of transport. However, in light of the potential of transport
infrastructure to contribute to modal shift, it will be necessary to assess and where appropriate establish relevant
technical screening criteria for overall infrastructure that is essential for low carbon transport modes, notably
inland waterways. Depending on the outcome of the technical assessment, relevant technical screening criteria
should also be established for the economic activities referred to in this recital at the time of adoption of the
delegated act referred to in Articles 12(2), 13(2), 14(2) and 15(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852.  
(35)  To ensure that the transport activities considered as sustainable do not facilitate the use of fossil fuels, the technical 
screening criteria for the relevant activities should exclude assets, operations and infrastructure dedicated to
transport of fossil fuels. While applying this criterion, it is necessary to recognise the multiple uses, different
ownership, user arrangements and fuels blending rates, in line with the relevant existing market practices. The
Platform on Sustainable Finance should assess the usability of this criterion in the context of fulfilling its mandate.  
(36)  Buildings across all sectors in the Union are responsible for 40 % of energy consumption and 36 % of carbon 
emissions. Buildings can therefore play an important role in climate change mitigation. Technical screening criteria
should therefore be laid down for the construction of new buildings, for building renovation, installation of
different energy efficiency equipment, on-site renewables, provision of energy services, and for the acquisition
and ownership of buildings. Those technical screening criteria should be based on the potential impact of those
activities, on the energy performance of buildings and on related greenhouse gas emissions and embedded carbon.
For new buildings, it might be necessary to review the technical screening criteria to ensure that those criteria