File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 171 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 174/284(b) an explanation of the methodologies and assumptions used to compile the data, including whether the number
of non-employees is reported:
i.in headcount or full-time equivalent (FTE) (including a definition of how FTE is defined); and
ii.at the end of the reporting period, as an average across the reporting period, or using another methodology.
(c) where applicable, a provision of contextual information necessary to understand the data (for example,
significant fluctuations in the number of non-employees in the undertaking’s own workforce during the
reporting period and between the current and the previous reporting period).
56. For the information specified in point (a) of paragraph 55, the undertaking may disclose the most common types of
non-employees (for example, self-employed people, people provided by undertakings primarily engaged in
employment activities, and other types relevant to the undertaking), their relationship with the undertaking, and the
type of work that they perform.
57. Where data is not available, the undertaking shall estimate the number and state that it has done so. When the
undertaking performs estimates, it shall describe the basis of preparation of this estimation.
Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue
58. The undertaking shall disclose information on the extent to which the working conditions and terms of
employment of its employees are determined or influenced by collective bargaining agreements and on the
extent to which its employees are represented in social dialogue in the European Economic Area (EEA) at
the establishment and European level.
59. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the coverage of collective bargaining
agreements and social dialogue for the undertaking’s own employees.
60. The undertaking shall disclose:
(a) the percentage of its total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements;
(b) in the EEA, whether it has one or more collective bargaining agreements and, if so, the overall percentage of its
employees covered by such agreement(s) for each country in which it has significant employment, defined as at
least 50 employees by head count representing at least 10% of its total number of employees; and
(c) outside the EEA, the percentage of its own employees covered by collective bargaining agreements by region.
61. For employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements, the undertaking may disclose whether it determines
their working conditions and terms of employment based on collective bargaining agreements that cover its other
employees or based on collective bargaining agreements from other undertakings.
62. The undertaking may disclose the extent to which the working conditions and terms of employment of non-
employees in its own workforce are determined or influenced by collective bargaining agreements, including an
estimate of the coverage rate.
63. The undertaking shall disclose the following information in relation to social dialogue:
(a) the global percentage of employees covered by workers’ representatives, reported at the country level for each
EEA country in which the undertaking has significant employment; and
(b) the existence of any agreement with its employees for representation by a European Works Council (EWC), a
Societas Europaea (SE) Works Council, or a Societas Cooperativa Europaea (SCE) Works Council.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 175 of 284 ---