File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 11 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 10/28440. The undertaking shall consider how it is affected by its dependencies on the availability of natural, human and social
resources at appropriate prices and quality, irrespective of its potential impacts on those resources.
41. An undertaking’s principal impacts, risks and opportunities are understood to be the same as the material impacts,
risks and opportunities identified under the double materiality principle and therefore reported on in its
sustainability statement.
42. The undertaking shall apply the criteria set under sections 3.4 and 3.5 in this Standard, using appropriate
quantitative and/or qualitative thresholds. Appropriate thresholds are necessary to determine which impacts, risks
and opportunities are identified and addressed by the undertaking as material and to determine which
sustainability matters are material for reporting purposes. Some existing standards and frameworks use the term
"most significant impacts” when referring to the threshold used to identify the impacts that are described in ESRS as "material impacts."
3.4 Impact materiality
43. A sustainability matter is material from an impact perspective when it pertains to the undertaking’s material actual
or potential, positive or negative impacts on people or the environment over the short-, medium- or long-term.
Impacts include those connected with the undertaking’s own operations and upstream and downstream value chain,
including through its products and services, as well as through its business relationships. Business relationships
include those in the undertaking’s upstream and downstream value chain and are not limited to direct contractual
relationships.
44. In this context, impacts on people or the environment include impacts in relation to environmental, social and
governance matters.
45. The materiality assessment of a negative impact is informed by the due diligence process defined in the international
instruments of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises. For actual negative impacts, materiality is based on the severity of the impact, while for potential negative
impacts it is based on the severity and likelihood of the impact. Severity is based on the following factors:
(a) the scale;
(b) scope; and
(c) irremediable character of the impact.
In the case of a potential negative human rights impact, the severity of the impact takes precedence over its
likelihood.
46. For positive impacts, materiality is based on:
(a) the scale and scope of the impact for actual impacts; and
(b) the scale, scope and likelihood of the impact for potential impacts.
3.5 Financial materiality
47. The scope of financial materiality for sustainability reporting is an expansion of the scope of materiality used in the
process of determining which information should be included in the undertaking’s financial statements.
48. The financial materiality assessment corresponds to the identification of information that is considered material for
primary users of general-purpose financial reports in making decisions relating to providing resources to the entity.
In particular, information is considered material for primary users of general-purpose financial reports if omitting,
misstating or obscuring that information could reasonably be expected to influence decisions that they make on the
basis of the undertaking’s sustainability statement.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 11 of 284 ---