File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 241 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 240/284Appendix A
Application Requirements
This appendix is an integral part of the ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users. It supports the application of the requirements set
out in this standard and has the same authority as the other parts of the standard.
ObjectiveAR 1. The undertaking may highlight special issues relevant to a material impact for a shorter period of time, for instance
initiatives regarding the health and safety of consumers and/or end-users in relation to contamination of a product
or severe breach of privacy due to a massive data leak.
AR 2. The overview of social and human rights matters provided in paragraph 2 is not meant to imply that all of these
issues should be disclosed in each Disclosure Requirement in this Standard. Rather, it provides a list of matters
that the undertaking shall consider in its materiality assessment (ref. to ESRS 1 chapter 3 Double materiality as the
basis for sustainability disclosures and ESRS 2 IRO-1) related to consumers and/or end-users and, subsequently,
disclose as material impacts, risks and opportunities within the scope of this Standard.
ESRS 2 General disclosures
Strategy
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
AR 3. ESRS 2 SBM-2 requires the undertaking to provide an understanding of if and how it considers whether its strategy
and business model play a role in creating, exacerbating or (conversely) mitigating significant material impacts on
consumers and/or end-users, and whether and how the business model and strategy are adapted to address such
material impacts.
AR 4. While consumers and/or end-users may not be engaging with the undertaking at the level of its strategy or
business model, their views can inform the undertaking’s assessment of its strategy and business model. The
undertaking may disclose the views of the (actual or potential) materially affected consumers and/or end-users’
legitimate representatives or those of credible proxies that have insight into their situation.
Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction
with strategy and business model
AR 5. Impacts on consumers and/or end-users can originate in the undertaking’s business model or strategy in a number
of different ways. For example, impacts may relate to the undertaking’s value proposition (for example, providing
online platforms with potential for online and offline harm), its value chain (for example, speed in developing
products or services, or delivering projects, with risks to health and safety), or its cost structure and the revenue
model (for example, sales-maximising incentives that put consumers at risk).
AR 6. Impacts on consumers and/or end-users that originate in the strategy or business model can also bring material
risks to the undertaking. For example, if the undertaking’s business model is premised on incentivising its sales force to sell high volumes of a product or service (for example, credit cards or pain medicine) at speed, and this
results in large- scale harm to consumers, the undertaking may face lawsuits and reputational damage affecting its
future business and credibility.
AR 7. Examples of particular characteristics of consumers and/or end-users that may be considered by the undertaking
when responding to paragraph 11 include young consumers and/or end-users who may be more susceptible to
impacts on their physical and mental development, or who lack financial literacy and may be more susceptible to
exploitative sales or marketing practices. They may also include women in a context where women are routinely
discriminated against in their access to particular services or in the marketing of particular products.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 241 of 284 ---