File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 23 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 21/284121. Provided that the conditions established in paragraph 120 are met, information prescribed by a Disclosure
Requirement of an ESRS, including a specific datapoint prescribed by a Disclosure Requirement, may be
incorporated in the sustainability statement by reference to the undertaking’s report prepared according to EU Eco-
Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) Regulation (EU) No 1221/2009 (12). In this case, the undertaking shall ensure
that the information incorporated by reference is produced using the same basis for preparation of ESRS information,
including scope of consolidation and treatment of value chain information.
122. In the preparation of its sustainability statement using incorporation by reference, the undertaking shall consider
the overall cohesiveness of the reported information and ensure that the incorporation by reference does not impair
the readability of the sustainability statement. Appendix G Example of incorporation by reference of this Standard is an
illustrative example of incorporation by reference (See ESRS 2 BP-2).
9.2 Connected information and connectivity with financial statements
123. The undertaking shall describe the relationships between different pieces of information. Doing so could require
connecting narrative information on governance, strategy and risk management to related metrics and targets. For
example, in providing connected information, the undertaking may need to explain the effect or likely effect of its
strategy on its financial statements or financial plans, or explain how its strategy relates to metrics and targets used
to measure progress against performance. Furthermore, the undertaking may need to explain how its use of natural
resources and changes within its supply chain could amplify, change or reduce its material impacts, risks and
opportunities. It may need to link this information to information about current or anticipated financial effects on
its production costs, to its strategic response to mitigate such impacts or risks, and to its related investment in new
assets. The undertaking may also need to link narrative information to the related metrics and targets and to
information in the financial statements. Information that describes connections shall be clear and concise.
124. When the sustainability statement includes monetary amounts or other quantitative data points that exceed a
threshold of materiality and that are presented in the financial statements (direct connectivity between information
disclosed in sustainability statement and information disclosed in financial statements), the undertaking shall include
a reference to the relevant paragraph of its financial statements where the corresponding information can be found.
125. The sustainability statement may include monetary amounts or other quantitative datapoints that exceed a
threshold of materiality and that are either an aggregation of, or a part of, monetary amounts or quantitative data
presented in the undertaking’s financial statements (indirect connectivity between information disclosed in sustainability statement and information disclosed in financial statements). If this is the case, the undertaking shall
explain how these amounts or datapoints in the sustainability statement relate to the most relevant amounts
presented in the financial statements. This disclosure shall include a reference to the line item and/or to the relevant
paragraphs of its financial statements where the corresponding information can be found. Where appropriate, a
reconciliation may be provided, and it may be presented in a tabular form.
126. In the case of information not covered by paragraphs 124 and 125, the undertaking shall explain, based on a
threshold of materiality, the consistency of significant data, assumptions, and qualitative information included in its
sustainability statement with the corresponding data, assumptions and qualitative information included in the
financial statements. This may occur when the sustainability statement includes:
(a) monetary amounts or other quantitative data linked to monetary amounts or other quantitative data presented in
the financial statements; or
(b) qualitative information linked to qualitative information presented in the financial statements.
(12)Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation
by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS), repealing Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 and