File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 59 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 59/284Disclosure Requirement GOV-5 – Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting
AR 11. This Disclosure Requirement focuses solely on the internal control processes over the sustainability reporting
process. The undertaking may consider risks such as the completeness and integrity of the data, the accuracy of
estimation results, the availability of upstream and/or downstream value chain data, and the timing of the
availability of the information.
3. Strategy
Disclosure Requirement SBM–1 Strategy, business model and value chain
AR 12. To provide the information on sectors required by paragraph 40, the undertaking shall map its significant activities
in accordance with ESRS sectors. If a code for a sub-sector does not exist, the caption “others” shall be used.
AR 13. For the purposes of the disclosures required in paragraph 40, a group of products and/or services offered, a group
of markets and/or customer groups served, or an ESRS sector, is significant for the undertaking if it meets one or
both of the following criteria:
(a) it accounts for more than 10 per cent of the undertaking’s revenue;
(b) it is connected with material actual impacts or material potential negative impacts of the undertaking.
AR 14. In preparing disclosures relating to its business model and value chain, the undertaking shall consider:
(a) its key activities, resources, distribution channels and customer segments;
(b) its key business relationships and their key characteristics, including relationships with customers and
suppliers;
(c) the cost structure and revenue of its business segments, in line with IFRS 8 disclosure requirements in the
financial statement, where applicable;
(d) the potential impacts, risks and opportunities in its significant sector(s) and their possible relationship to its
own business model or value chain.
AR 15. Contextual information may be particularly relevant for users of the undertaking’s sustainability statement, to
understand to what extent the disclosures include upstream and/or downstream value chain information. The
description of the main features of the upstream and/or downstream value chain and where applicable the identification of key value chains should support an understanding of how the undertaking applies the
requirements of ESRS 1 chapter 5 and the materiality assessment performed by the undertaking in line with ESRS
1 chapter 3. The description may provide a high-level overview of the key features of upstream and/or downstream
value chain entities indicating their relative contribution to the undertaking’s performance and position and
explaining how they contribute to the value creation of the undertaking.
Disclosure Requirement SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders
AR 16. The views and interests of stakeholders that are expressed as part of the undertaking’s engagement with
stakeholders through its due diligence process may be relevant to one or more aspects of its strategy or business
model. As such, they may affect the undertaking’s decisions regarding the future direction of the strategy or
business model.
Disclosure Requirement SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and
business model
AR 17. When describing where in its upstream and/or downstream value chain material impacts, risks and opportunities
are concentrated, the undertaking shall consider: geographical areas, facilities or types of assets, inputs, outputs
and distribution channels.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 60 of 284 ---