File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 167 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 170 of 284 ---

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 170/284Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workforce and workers’ representatives about impacts
25. The undertaking shall disclose its general processes for engaging with people in its own workforce and
workers' representatives about actual and potential impacts on its own workforce.
26. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of how the undertaking engages, as part
of its ongoing due diligence process, with people in its own workforce and workers' representatives about material,
actual and potential, positive and/or negative impacts that do or are likely to affect them, and whether and how
perspectives of its own workforces are taken into account in the decision-making processes of the undertaking.
27. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how the perspectives of its own workforce inform its decisions or
activities aimed at managing the actual and potential impacts on its own workforce. This shall include, where
relevant, an explanation of:
(a) whether engagement occurs directly with the undertaking’s own workforce or workers' representatives;
(b) the stage(s) at which engagement occurs, the type of engagement and frequency of the engagement;
(c) the function and the most senior role within the undertaking that has operational responsibility for ensuring that
this engagement happens and that the results inform the undertaking’s approach;
(d) where applicable, a Global Framework Agreement or other agreements that the undertaking has with workers'
representatives related to the respect of human rights of its own workforce, including an explanation of how the
agreement enables the undertaking to gain insight into the perspectives of its own workforce; and
(e) where applicable, how the undertaking assesses the effectiveness of its engagement with its own workforce, including, where relevant, any agreements or outcomes that result.
28. Where applicable, the undertaking shall disclose the steps it takes to gain insight into the perspectives of people in its
own workforce who may be particularly vulnerable to impacts and/or marginalised (for example, women, migrants,
people with disabilities).
29. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted a general process to
engage with its own workforce, it shall disclose this to be the case. It may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to
have such a process in place.
Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns
30. The undertaking shall describe the processes it has in place to provide for or cooperate in the remediation
of negative impacts on people in its own workforce that the undertaking is connected with, as well as
channels available to its own workforce to raise concerns and have them addressed.
31. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the formal means by which the
undertaking’s own workforce can make their concerns and needs known directly to the undertaking and/or through
which the undertaking supports the availability of such channels (for example, grievance mechanisms) in the
workplace, and how follow up is carried out with the people concerned regarding the issues raised and the effectiveness of these channels.
32. The undertaking shall describe the processes in place to cover the matters defined within paragraph 2 of the
Objective section by disclosing the following information:
(a) its general approach to and processes for providing or contributing to remedy where it has caused or contributed
to a material negative impact on people in its own workforce, including whether and how the undertaking
assesses that the remedy provided is effective;OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 171 of 284 ---