File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 182 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. The results of the research, development and innovation enable one or more of those economic activities to
meet the respective criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation, while respecting the
relevant criteria for doing no significant harm to other environmental objectives.
3. The economic activity aims at bringing to market a solution that is not yet in the market and is expected to
have a better performance in terms of life-cycle GHG emissions than best commercially available technologies
based on public or market information. The implementation of the technologies, products or other solutions
being researched results in overall net GHG emissions reductions over their life cycle.
4. Where the researched, developed or innovated technology, product or other solution already enables an
activity or several activities addressed in this Annex to meet the technical screening criteria specified in the
applicable Section of this Annex, or where that technology, product or other solution already enables one or
more economic activities considered as enabling or transitional to meet the requirements specified in points 5
and 6 respectively, the research, development and innovation activity focuses on the development of equally low-
or lower-emission technologies, products or other solutions with new significant advantages, such as lower cost.
5. Where a research activity is dedicated to one or more economic activities considered as enabling activities
in accordance with Article 10(1), point (i), of Regulation EU 2020/852 for which the technical screening criteria
are set out in this Annex, the results of the research deliver innovative technologies, processes or products that
allow those enabling activities and the activities that they ultimately enable to substantially reduce their GHG
emissions or substantially improve their technological and economic feasibility in order to facilitate their scaling
up.
6. Where a research activity is dedicated to one or more economic activities considered as transitional
activities in accordance with Article 10(2) of Regulation EU 2020/852 for which the technical screening
criteria are set out in this Annex, the technologies, products or other solutions researched enable the target
activities to be carried out with substantially lower projected emissions compared to the technical screening
criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation set out in this Annex.
Where a research activity is dedicated to one or more economic activities specified in Sections 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.11,
3.12, 3.13, 3.14 and 3.16 of this Annex, the technologies, products or other solutions either enable the target
activities to be carried out with substantially lower GHG emission, which aim at a 30 % reduction compared to
the relevant EU ETS benchmark or benchmarks (  315  ) or are dedicated to the widely accepted relevant low carbon 
technologies or processes in these sectors, notably electrification, in particular of heating and cooling, hydrogen
as fuel or feedstock, CCS, CCU and biomass as fuel or feedstock, where biomass complies with the relevant
requirements set out in Sections 4.8, 4.20, 4.24 in this Annex.
7. Where the researched, developed or innovated technology, product or other solution is at TRL 6 or 7, life-
cycle GHG emissions are evaluated in simplified form by the entity carrying out the research. The entity
demonstrates one of the following, where applicable:
(a) a patent not older than 10 years associated with the technology, product or other solution, where
information on its GHG emission reduction potential has been provided;
(b) a permit obtained from a competent authority for operating the demonstration site associated with the
innovative technology, product or other solution for the duration of the demonstration project, where
information on its GHG emission reduction potential has been provided.  
_____________
( 315  ) Reflecting the average value of the 10 % most efficient installations in 2016 and 2017 (t CO  2 equivalents/t) as set out in the 
Annex to the Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/447.EN  L 442/136 Official Journal of the European Union 9.12.2021

--- Page 137 of 349 ---