File Name: 1_2022-12-14_RL_2022_2464_CSRD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:33
Original Size: 1.12 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 68 of 140
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(69) In order to provid e for unif orm assurance practices and high-quality assurance of sustainability repor ting across the
Union, the Commission should be empowered to adopt sustainability assurance standards by means of delega ted
acts. Member States should be given the possibility of applying national assurance standards, procedures or
requirements, as long as the Commission has not adopt ed an assurance standard by means of delegat ed acts
covering the same subject matt er. Such assurance standards should set out the procedures that the auditor is to
perform in order to draw its conclusions on the assurance of sustainability repor ting. Theref ore, the Commission
should adop t assurance standards for limited assurance by means of delegat ed acts before 1 October 2026 . With a
view to facilitating the harmonisation of the assurance of sustainability repor ting across Member State s, the CEA OB
should be encouraged to adopt non-binding guidelines to set out the procedures to be performe d when expressing
an assurance opinion on sustainability repor ting, pending the adop tion by the Commission of an assurance
standard cover ing the same subject matter .
(70) Directive 2006/43/EC sets out rules on the statut ory audit of a group of under takings. Similar rules should be set out
for the assurance of consolidated sustainability repor ting.
(71) Directive 2006/43/EC requires statutor y auditors or audit firms to present the results of their statut ory audit in an
audit repor t. Similar rules should be set out for the assurance of sustainability repor ting. The results of the
assurance of sustainability repor ting should be presented in an assurance repor t. Where the same statut ory auditor
carries out the statut ory audit of annual financial state ments and the assurance of sustainability repor ting, it should
be possible to present the information about the assurance of sustainability repor ting in the audit repor t.
(72) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member States to set up a system of quality assurance review of statut ory auditors
and audit firms. To ensure that quality assurance reviews also take place for the assurance of sustainability repor ting
and that the persons who carry out quality assurance reviews have appropr iate professional education and relevant
exper ience in sustainability repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting, that requirement to set up a
system of quality assurance review should be extended to the assurance of sustainability repor ting. As a transitional
measure, until 31 December 2025 , the persons who carry out quality assurance reviews of the assurance of
sustainability repor ting should be exempted from the requirement to have relevant exper ience in sustainability
repor ting and in the assurance of sustainability repor ting or in other sustainability-relate d services.
(73) Directive 2006/43/EC requires Member States to have in place an investig ations and sanctions regime for statut ory
auditors and audit firms carrying out statutor y audits. That Directive also requires Member States to organise an
effective syste m of public oversight, and to ensure that regulatory arrangements for public oversight system s permit
effective cooperation at Union level in respect of Member States’ oversight activities. Such requirements should be
extende d to statutor y auditors and audit firms that conduct assurance of sustainability repor ting in order to ensure
the consistency of the investig ations, sanctions and oversight framew orks set up for the auditor ’s work in the
statut ory audit and the assurance of sustainability repor ting.
(74) Directive 2006/43/EC contains rules on the appointment and dismissal of statut ory auditor s and audit firms
carrying out statutor y audits. Those rules should be extended to the assurance of sustainability repor ting to ensure
the consistency of the rules imp osed on auditors as regards their work on the statut ory audit and the assurance of
sustainability repor ting.
(75) Pursuant to Article 6 of Directive 2007/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (36), Member States are
required to ensure that shareholders of under takings whose secur ities are admitt ed to trading on a regulated mark et
in the Union, acting individually or collectively , have the right to put items on the agenda of the general meeting,