File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 281 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 281/284Systemic risks Risks arising from the breakdown of the entire system, rather than the
failure of individual parts. They are characterised by modest tipping points
combining indirectly to produce large failures with cascading of interactions
of physical and transition risks (contagion), as one loss triggers a chain of
others, and with systems unable to recover equilibrium after a shock. An
example is the loss of a keystone species, such as sea otters, which have a
critical role in ecosystem community structure. When sea otters were
hunted to near extinction in the 1900s, the coastal ecosystems flipped and
biomass production was greatly reduced.
Targets Measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound goals that the undertaking aims to achieve in relation to material impacts, risks or opportunities.
They may be set voluntarily by the undertaking or derive from legal requirements on the undertaking.
Threatened species Endangered species, including flora and fauna, listed in the European Red List or the IUCN Red List, as referred to in Section 7 of Annex II to
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139.
Training Initiatives put in place by the undertaking aimed at the maintenance and/or improvement of skills and knowledge of its own workers. It can include
different methodologies, such as on-site training, and online training.
Transition plan A specific type of action plan that is adopted by the undertaking in relation
to a strategic decision and that addresses:
i.a public policy objective; and/or
ii.an entity-specific action plan organised as a structured set of targets and
actions, associated with a key strategic decision, a major change in
business model, and/or particularly important actions and allocated
resources.
Transition plan for climate change
mitigationAn aspect of an undertaking’s overall strategy that lays out the undertaking’s targets, actions and resources for its transition towards a lower–carbon
economy, including actions such as reducing its GHG emissions with
regard to the objective of limiting global warming to 1.5°C and climate
neutrality.
Transition risks Risks that result from a misalignment between an organisation’s or
investor’s strategy and management and the changing regulatory, policy or
societal landscape in which it operates. Developments aimed at halting or
reversing damage to the climate or to nature, such as government
measures, technological breakthroughs, market changes, litigation and
changing consumer preferences can all create or change transition risks.
Users Users of sustainability statements are primary users of general-purpose
financial reporting (existing and potential investors, lenders and other
creditors including asset managers, credit institutions, insurance
undertakings), as well as other users, including the undertaking’s business
partners, trade unions and social partners, civil society and non- governmental organisations, governments, analysts and academics.
Value chain The full range of activities, resources and relationships related to the
undertaking’s business model and the external environment in which it
operates.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 282 of 284 ---