File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 33 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 31/284QC 9. Information can be accurate without being perfectly precise in all respects. Accurate information implies that the
undertaking has implemented adequate processes and internal controls to avoid material errors or material
misstatements. As such, estimates shall be presented with a clear emphasis on their possible limitations and
associated uncertainty (see section 7.2 of this Standard). The amount of precision needed and attainable, and the
factors that make information accurate, depend on the nature of the information and the nature of the matters it
addresses. For example, accuracy requires that:
(a) factual information is free from material error;
(b) descriptions are precise;
(c) estimates, approximations and forecasts are clearly identified as such;
(d) no material errors have been made in selecting and applying an appropriate process for developing an estimate,
approximation or forecast, and the inputs to that process are reasonable and supportable;
(e) assertions are reasonable and based on information of sufficient quality and quantity; and
(f) information about judgements about the future faithfully reflects both those judgements and the information
on which they are based.
Comparability
QC 10. Sustainability information is comparable when it can be compared with information provided by the undertaking
in previous periods and, can be compared with information provided by other undertakings, in particular those
with similar activities or operating within the same industry. A point of reference for comparison can be a target,
a baseline, an industry benchmark, comparable information from either other undertakings or from an
internationally recognised organisation, etc.
QC 11. Consistency is related to, but is not the same as, comparability. Consistency refers to the use of the same
approaches or methods for the same sustainability matter, from period to period by the undertaking and other
undertakings. Consistency helps to achieve the goal of comparability.
QC 12. Comparability is not uniformity. For information to be comparable, like components shall look alike and different
components shall look different. Comparability of sustainability information is not enhanced by making unlike things look alike any more than it is enhanced by making like things look different.
Verifiability
QC 13. Verifiability helps to give users confidence that information is complete, neutral and accurate. Sustainability
information is verifiable if it is possible to corroborate the information itself or the inputs used to derive it.
QC 14. Verifiability means that various knowledgeable and independent observers could reach consensus, although not necessarily complete agreement, that a particular depiction is a faithful representation. Sustainability information
shall be provided in a way that enhances its verifiability, for example:
(a) including information that can be corroborated by comparing it with other information available to users about the undertaking’s business, about other businesses or about the external environment;
(b) providing information about inputs and methods of calculation used to produce estimates or approximations; and
(c) providing information reviewed and agreed by the administrative, management and supervisory bodies or
their committees.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 32 of 284 ---