File Name: 1_2024-02-28_RL_2024_825_GCD_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:42
Original Size: 0.61 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 17 of 34
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2024/825/oj 6/16(18) Software updat es that are secur ity updat es are necessar y for the secure use of the product while updat es relat ed to
enhancing functionality features are not. Theref ore, Directive 2005/29/EC should prohibit the presentation of a
software update as necessar y to keep the product in conf ormity where that updat e only enhances functionality
features.
(19) Commercial communications for goods that contain a feature introduced to limit their durability is a commercial
practice that is detr imental to consumers and the environment as they encourage the sale of such goods whic h leads
to higher costs for consumers and unnecessar y use of resources, waste production and greenhouse gas emissions.
Such commercial communications should theref ore be prohibit ed when information on the feature and its effects
on the durability of the good are available to the trader . Examples of such features could be software which stops or
down grades the functionality of the good after a particular period, or a piece of hardware which is designed to fail
after a particular period. It could also be a design or manufactur ing flaw which , although not introduced as a
feature for that purpose, leads to the premature failure of the good, if it is not fixed once information about the
existen ce and effect of the feature has become available to the trader . In the conte xt of that prohibition, commercial
communications include communications designed to promote, directly or indirectly , the goods. The manufact uring
of goods and making them available on the mark et do not constitute commercial communications. That prohibition
should aim to cover mainly traders who are also the producers of the goods, as it is they who determi ne the
durability of the goods.
Theref ore, in general, when a good is identif ied as containing a feature to limit the durability , the producer of that
good should be expected to be aware of that feature and its effect on the durability of that good. Never theless,
traders who are not the producers of the goods, such as the sellers, should be target ed by that prohibition where
reliable information is available to them about the feature and its effects on durability , such as a statement from a
compet ent national author ity or information provided by the producer . Theref ore, as soon as such information is
available to the trader , the prohibition should apply irrespective of whether the trader is actually aware or unawa re
of that information, for exam ple by neglecting it. For such a commercial practice to be considered unfair, it should
not be necessar y to demonstrate that the purpose of the feature is to stimulate the replacement of the respective
good, but it would be suffi cient to prove that the feature has been introduced to limit the durability of the good.
This prohibition complements and does not affect the remedies available to consumers in the event of a lack of
conf ormity under Directive (EU) 2019/771. The use of features limiting the durability of the goods should be
distinguished from manuf actur ing practices using mater ials or processes of general low quality resulting in limited
durability of the goods. Lack of conf ormity of a good resulting from the use of low quality mater ials or processes
should continue to be governed by the rules on the conf ormity of goods set out in Directive (EU) 2019/771.
(20) Another practice which should be prohibit ed under Annex I to Directive 2005/29/EC is the practice of falsel y
claiming that a good has a certain durability in term s of usage time or intensity under normal conditions of use.
That would be the case, for instance, if a trader informs consumers that a washing machine is expect ed to last a
certain number of washing cycles, in accordance with normal expecte d use indicate d in the instr uctions, while the
actual use of the washing machi ne under the prescr ibed conditions shows that is not the case. Such claims are
largely made by the producers, as it is they who determine the durability of the goods. Theref ore, in general, traders