File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 202 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 203/284Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify disclosure requirements which will enable users of the sustainability
statement to understand material impacts on value chain workers connected with the undertaking’s own
operations and value chain, including through its products or services, as well as through its business relationships,
and its related material risks and opportunities, including:
(a) how the undertaking affects workers in its value chain, in terms of material positive and negative actual or
potential impacts;
(b) any actions taken, and the result of such actions, to prevent, mitigate or remediate actual or potential negative
impacts, and to address risks and opportunities;
(c) the nature, type and extent of the undertaking’s material risks and opportunities, including those related to its
impacts and dependencies on workers in the value chain, and how the undertaking manages them; and
(d) the financial effects on the undertaking over the short-, medium- and long-term of material risks and
opportunities, including those arising from the undertaking’s impacts and dependencies on workers in the value
chain.
2. In order to meet the objective, this Standard requires an explanation of the general approach the undertaking takes to identify and manage any material actual and potential impacts on value chain workers in relation to:
(a) working conditions (for example, secure employment, working time, adequate wage, social dialogue, freedom of
association, including the existence of work councils, collective bargaining, work-life balance and health and
safety);
(b) equal treatment and opportunities for all (for example, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value,
training and skills development, the employment and inclusion of persons with disabilities, measures against
violence and harassment in the workplace, and diversity);
(c) other work-related rights (for example, child labour , forced labour , adequate housing, water and sanitation and
privacy).
3. This Standard also requires an explanation of how such impacts, as well as the undertaking’s dependencies on value
chain workers, can create material risks or opportunities for the undertaking. For example, negative impacts on
value chain workers may disrupt the undertaking’s operations (through customers refusing to buy its products or
state agencies impounding its goods) and harm its reputation. Conversely, respect for workers’ rights and active
support programmes (for example through financial literacy initiatives) can bring business opportunities, such as
more reliable supply or widening of the future consumer base.
4. This Standard covers all workers in the undertaking’s upstream and downstream value chain who are or can be
materially impacted by the undertaking, including impacts that are connected with the undertaking’s own
operations and value chain, including through its products or services, as well as through its business relationships.
This includes all workers who are not included in the scope of “own workforce” (“own workforce” includes
employees, individual contractors, i.e., self- employed workers, and workers provided by third party undertakings
primarily engaged in ‘employment activities’). Own workforce is covered in ESRS S1 Own workforce. See AR 3 for
examples of what is included in the scope of this Standard.
Interaction with other ESRS
5. This Standard applies when material impacts on and/or material risks and opportunities related to value chain
workers have been identified through the materiality assessment process laid out in ESRS 2 General disclosures.
6. This Standard shall be read in conjunction with ESRS 1 General requirements, and ESRS 2, as well as the ESRS S1, ESRS
S3 Affected communities and ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users.
7. The reporting under this Standard shall be consistent, coherent and where relevant clearly linked with reporting on
the undertaking’s own workforce under ESRS S1, in order to ensure effective reporting.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 204 of 284 ---