File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 168 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 171/284(b) any specific channels it has in place for its own workforce to raise their concerns or needs directly with the
undertaking and have them addressed, including whether these are established by the undertaking itself and/or
through participation in third-party mechanisms;
(c) whether or not the undertaking has a grievance
/complaints handling mechanism related to employee
matters (94); and
(d) the processes through which the undertaking supports the availability of such channels in the workplace of its
own workforce; and
(e) how it tracks and monitors issues raised and addressed, and, how it ensures the effectiveness of the channels,
including through the involvement of stakeholders who are intended users.
33. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it assesses that people in its own workforce are aware of, and trust,
these structures or processes as a way to raise their concerns or needs and have them addressed. In addition, the
undertaking shall disclose whether it has policies in place regarding the protection of individuals that use them,
including workers’ representatives, against retaliation. If such information has been disclosed in accordance with
ESRS G1-1, the undertaking may refer to that information.
34. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted a channel for raising
concerns and/or does not support the availability of such a channel in the workplace for its own workforce, it shall
disclose this to be the case. It may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to have such a channel in place.
Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to managing
material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions
35. The undertaking shall disclose how it takes action to address material negative and positive impacts, and to
manage material risks and pursue material opportunities related to its own workforce, and the effectiveness of those actions.
36. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is twofold. Firstly, it is to enable an understanding of any actions and
initiatives through which the undertaking seeks to:
(a) to prevent, mitigate and remediate negative material impacts on its own workforce; and/or
(b) to achieve positive material impacts for its own workforce.
Secondly, it is to enable an understanding of the ways in which the undertaking is addressing the material risks and
pursuing the material opportunities related to its own workforce.
37. The undertaking shall provide a summarised description of the action plans and resources to manage its material
impacts, risks, and opportunities related to its own workforce in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-A Actions and
resources in relation to material sustainability matters.
38. In relation to the material impacts related to its own workforce, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) actions taken, planned or underway to prevent or mitigate material negative impacts on its own workforce;
(b) whether and how it has taken action to provide or enable remedy in relation to an actual material impact;
(c) any additional actions or initiatives it has in place with the primary purpose of delivering positive impacts for its
own workforce; and
(94)This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is
derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #5 in Table III of Annex I of
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack
of grievance/complaints handling mechanisms related to employee matters).OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 172 of 284 ---