File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 432 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(c) the reinsurer provides, as part of the business relationship with the insurer or the reinsurance intermediary,
data or other technical advice or both enabling the insurer to offer coverage of risks stemming from climate-
related perils and the coverage allows for risk-based rewards for preventive actions taken by the insurer’s
policyholders.
2.3. Where a reinsurance product applies at the level of a portfolio of underlying products, only a share of the
reinsurance activity’s underlying products may cover risks stemming from climate- related perils and reward, in a
risk-based manner, preventive actions taken by the insurer’s policyholders for the purpose of point 2.1. In that
case, the reinsurer is able to identify the share of reinsurance premiums that relate to those underlying products.
3. Innovative reinsurance coverage solutions:  
3.1. Reinsurance products sold under the reinsurance activity offer coverage for risks stemming from climate-
related perils where the demands and needs of the insurer’s clients, based on the underlying products, require so.
Such insurance products appropriately reflect risk-based rewards for preventive actions taken by the insurer’s
policyholders.
3.2. Depending on the demands and needs of the individual customers of the insurer, reinsurance products
may include specific risk transfer solutions which may include protection against business interruption, contingent
business interruption, other non-physical damage-related loss factors, cascading effects and interdependencies of
hazards (secondary perils), cascading impacts of interacting natural and technological hazards or critical infra ­
structure failures.
4. Data sharing:  
4.1. With due regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679, a significant share of loss data related to the reinsurer’s
activity is made available, free of charge, to one or several public authorities for the purpose of analytical research.
The public authorities declare to use the data for purposes of enhancing adaptation to climate change by the
society in a region, country or internationally and the reinsurer provides the data at a level of granularity sufficient
for the use declared by the respective public authorities.
4.2. Where the reinsurer is not yet sharing such data with a public authority for the aforementioned purpose, it
has declared the intention to make its data available, free of charge, to interested third parties and has indicated
under which conditions such data can be shared. That declaration of intention to share available data is easily
accessible, including on the reinsurer’s website, for relevant public authorities.
5. High level of service in post-disaster situation:  
Claims under the reinsurance activity, both ongoing and those from large-scale loss events resulting from risks
stemming from climate-related perils, are processed fairly with respect to customers, in accordance with high
handling standards for claims and in timely fashion in line with applicable law and there has been no failure to do
so in the context of recent large-scale loss events. Where appropriate, the reinsurer supports the insurer or the
reinsurance intermediary in assessing the claims from the underlying product. Information as regards procedures
on additional measures by the reinsurer in case of large-scale loss events is publicly available.  
Do no significant harm (‘DNSH’)  
(1) Climate change mitigation  The reinsurance activity does not cover cession of insurance of the 
extraction, storage, transport or manufacture of fossil fuels or the
cession of insurance of vehicles, property or other assets dedicated to
such purposes.  
(3) Sustainable use and protection of
water and marine resources  N/A  
(4) Transition to a circular economy  N/AEN  L 442/336 Official Journal of the European Union 9.12.2021

--- Page 337 of 349 ---