File Name: 1_2023-07-31_DelVO_2023_2772_ESRS_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:41
Original Size: 5.82 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 208 of 284
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2023/2772/oj 208/284(c) the processes through which it supports or requires the availability of such channels in the workplace of value
chain workers; and
(d) how it tracks and monitors issues raised and addressed, and how it ensures the effectiveness of the channels,
including through involvement of stakeholders who are the intended users.
28. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it assesses that value chain workers are aware of and trust these
structures or processes as a way to raise their concerns or needs and have them addressed. In addition, the undertaking shall disclose whether it has policies in place regarding the protection of individuals that use them
against retaliation. If such information has been disclosed in accordance with ESRS G1-1, the undertaking may refer
to that information.
29. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted a channel for raising
concerns and/or does not support the availability of such a channel in the workplace of value chain workers, it shall
disclose this to be the case. It may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to have such a channel or processes in place.
Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions
30. The undertaking shall disclose how it takes action to address material impacts on value chain workers, and to manage
material risks and pursue material opportunities related to value chain workers and the effectiveness of those actions.
31. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is twofold. Firstly, it is to enable an understanding of any actions or
initiatives through which the undertaking seeks to:
(a) prevent, mitigate and remediate the negative material impacts on value chain workers; and/or
(b) achieve positive material impacts for value chain workers.
Secondly, it is to enable an understanding of the ways in which the undertaking is addressing the material risks and
pursuing the material opportunities related to workers in the value chain.
The undertaking shall provide a summarised description of the action plans and resources to manage its material
impacts, risks, and opportunities related to value chain workers as per ESRS 2 MDR-A Actions and resources in relation
to material sustainability matters.
32. In relation to material impacts, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) actions taken, planned or underway to prevent or mitigate material negative impacts on value chain workers;
(b) whether and how it has taken action to provide or enable remedy in relation to an actual material impact;
(c) any additional actions or initiatives it has in place with the primary purpose of delivering positive impacts for
value chain workers; and
(d) how it tracks and assesses the effectiveness of such actions and initiatives in delivering intended outcomes for
value chain workers.
33. In relation to paragraph 30, the undertaking shall describe:
(a) the processes through which it identifies what action is needed and appropriate in response to a particular actual
or potential negative impact on value chain workers;
(b) its approach to taking action in relation to specific material negative impacts on value chain workers, including
any action in relation to its own purchasing or other internal practices, as well as capacity- building or other
forms of engagement with entities in the value chain, or forms of collaborative action with industry peers or
other relevant parties; and
(c) how it ensures that processes to provide or enable remedy in the event of material negative impacts are available
and effective in their implementation and outcomes.OJ L, 22.12.2023 EN  

--- Page 209 of 284 ---