File Name: 1_2021-06-04_DelVO_2021_2139_TAXKRA_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:30
Original Size: 2.76 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 5 of 447
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(10)  The methodology to calculate life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions for activities in the information and communi ­
cation sector should reflect the specificities of that sector, in particular the specialised work and guidance that has
been provided by European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) for the operation of life-cycle
assessments in the information and communication sector. It is therefore appropriate to allow for the use of
the ETSI standard ES 203 199 as a methodology to accurately calculate greenhouse gas emissions for that sector.  
(11)  The technical screening criteria for certain activities rely on elements of considerable technical complexity and the 
assessment whether those criteria have been complied with may require expert knowledge and may not be feasible
for investors. To facilitate that assessment, the compliance with such technical screening criteria for such activities
should be verified by an independent third party.  
(12)  Enabling economic activities as referred to in Article 10(1), point (i), of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 do not substan ­
tially contribute to climate change mitigation through their own performance. Such activities play a crucial role in
the decarbonisation of the economy by directly enabling other activities to be carried out at a low carbon level of
environmental performance. Technical screening criteria should therefore be established for those economic
activities which play an essential role in enabling the target activities to become low-carbon or to lead to
greenhouse gas reductions. Those technical screening criteria should ensure that an activity complying with
them respects the safeguards of Article 16 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, in particular that the activity does not
lead to a lock-in of assets and has a substantial positive environmental impact.  
(13)  Transitional economic activities as referred to in Article 10(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 cannot yet be replaced 
by technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives but support the transition to a climate-neutral
economy. Those activities can play a crucial role in mitigating climate change by substantially reducing their
currently high carbon footprint, including by helping to phase out reliance on fossil fuels. Technical screening
criteria should therefore be established for those economic activities, where near-zero carbon solutions are not yet
viable or where near-zero carbon activities exist, but are not yet practicable at scale, that have the highest potential
for significant greenhouse gas reductions. Those technical screening criteria should ensure that an activity
complying with them respects the safeguards of Article 10(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, in particular that
the activity has the greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to the best performance in the sector or industry, does
not hamper the development and deployment of low-carbon alternatives and does not lead to a lock-in of carbon-
intensive assets.  
(14)  In view of the ongoing negotiations underway on the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), and in order to achieve 
greater coherence across the different instruments to achieve the environmental and climate ambitions of the
Green Deal, the establishment of the technical screening criteria for agriculture should be delayed.  
(15)  Forests are under increasing pressure as a result of climate change, which aggravates other key drivers of pressures 
such as pests, diseases, extreme weather events and forest fires. Other pressures come from rural abandonment,
lack of management and fragmentation due to land use changes, increasing management intensity due to rising
demand for wood, forest products and energy, infrastructure development, urbanisation and land take. At the same
time, forests play a crucial role for reaching the Union’s objectives of reversing biodiversity loss and enhancing
ambition on climate change mitigation and adaptation, reducing and controlling disaster risk due in particular to
floods, droughts or wildfires and promoting a circular bioeconomy. To reach climate neutrality and a healthy
environment, it is necessary to improve both the quality and the quantity of forest areas that are the largest carbon
sink in the land use, land use change and forestry (‘LULUCF’) sector. Forest-related activities can contribute to
climate change mitigation by increasing net removals of carbon dioxide, by preserving carbon stocks, and by
providing materials and renewable energy, generating co-benefits for climate change adaptation, biodiversity,