File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 22 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[30]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidanceSelecting the function(s)
If multiple functions are identified, companies should
base the functional unit on the function(s) that best
reflects what the studied product was designed to do.
For example, paint fulfills the function of providing wall
color and surface protection. If the goal of the company
is to design paint with longer-lasting color that doesn’t
have to be reapplied as frequently, that is the function
on which the functional unit should be based.  More than 
one function can be represented in a functional unit if
applicable to the goal of the company.
Defining the functional unit and reference flow
A well-defined functional unit consists of three general
parameters: the magnitude of the function or service; the
duration or service life of that function or service; and the
expected level of quality. Although not all parameters
may be relevant for all products (or some parameters may
be mutually exclusive), considering them helps to ensure
a robust functional unit definition and makes subsequent
inventory steps easier, such as defining the use profile
during boundary setting.
There are two approaches to defining the functional
unit and reference flow: define the reference flow first
and then determine the functional unit based on the amount of product; or define the functional unit first
and then determine the amount of product needed to
fulfill it. When defining the functional unit first, it is often
helpful to base the parameters on product rules, sector
guidance, or industry average use-profiles. On the other
hand, the reference flow may be defined first to specify
an amount of product included in the study. This could
be an individual product, bulk packaging of a product, or
government- or industry-regulated product specifications
(e.g., government-recommended serving sizes for food
products). It is helpful to consider which criterion would
be most meaningful to the user of the report. For
example, a functional unit that requires half a product
may be hard for a consumer to understand.
To report efficiency improvements of a product over time,
companies should define the functional unit so that, as
improvements are made, the reference flow needed to
fulfill the same functional unit decreases. Consider, for
example, a laptop computer for which the functional
unit is average daily use over a 3-year lifetime and the
reference flow includes two batteries that each have a  
1.5-year useful life. Extending the battery life will reduce the
reference flow in subsequent inventories. (See chapter 14  
for more information on performance tracking over time.)
Ecolab, the global leader in cleaning, sanitizing, food
safety, and infection prevention products and services,
performed a GHG inventory on the life cycle of their
APEXTM automatic warewashing system. Ecolab selected
the function as the delivery of clean and sanitized dishes
through an automatic dish machine, which included
the necessary individual functions that the APEXTM
warewashing system provides (APEXTM Power, APEXTM
Rinse Additive, and APEXTM Presoak). They chose the
magnitude and duration of the function as its use in
a typical food service facility for one year and set the
expected level of quality as “clean and sanitized,”  
which requires 180 °F water during use.
Using this information, the functional unit was defined as
delivering clean and sanitized dishes through an automatic
dish machine in a typical food service facility for one year. The reference flow was defined as the total pounds of
product required to fulfill the function, namely:
•500 racks per day of dishes washed at a typical location
with 360 operating days per year
•1800 parts per million (ppm) average detergent
concentration within the dish machine (steady-state
assumption)
•0.15 grams of rinse additive per rack of dishes
•4000 ppm presoak concentration, dispensed twice per day
By defining a detailed functional unit – considering all
functions, quality, magnitude, and duration – Ecolab was
able to quickly and accurately define their reference flow.
Additionally, the information collected about the use of
the product was used during boundary setting (chapter 7)
to easily define the use profile. Ecolab

--- Page 33 of 148 ---