File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 58 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[72]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidanceFigure [9.5]  Example process map illustrating the closed loop approximation method
Material recovery facility and recycled material
preprocessing are general terms for the attributable
processes needed to convert recovered material (e.g.,
material collected for reuse) into a recycled material
output ready to be used in another product system.
Specific examples of potential attributable processes
include sorting, shredding, cleaning, melting, and deinking.  
In the closed loop approximation method no emissions
or removals associated with recycling are allocated
to another product system. However, the creation of
recyclable material results in the displacement of virgin
material and the emissions and removals associated with
its creation.
The following illustrates how to calculate inventory
results for the material acquisition, end-of-life stage,
and virgin material displacement using the closed loop
approximation method as illustrated in figure 9.5.
Virgin material acquisition and preprocessing stage:  
All attributable processes due to virgin material acquisition
and preprocessing (assumes all input material is virgin).
End-of-life stage: All attributable processes due to end-
of-life (including recycling). In fi  gure  9.5 this includes 
collection9, waste treatment, material recovery facility,
and preprocessing of recycled material.Virgin material displacement factor: Recycling  
rate of material (recycled output/virgin material input)
multiplied by the attributable processes for virgin
material acquisition and preprocessing.
The virgin material displacement factor is calculated
only for the virgin material that has the same inherent
properties as the recycled material. For products with
several material inputs, only the attributable processes
associated with the displaced material are considered.
Virgin material acquisition and preprocessing impacts
should be calculated assuming that all material input is
virgin. In the case where recycled material is also used as an
input, the material acquisition and preprocessing impacts
are calculated assuming all virgin input in order to correctly
apply the closed loop approximation method. Alternatively,
to avoid double accounting, the recycled content approach
can be applied to the recycled input with a closed loop
approach applied to the remaining net material output
(displacing only the primary material input). However this
could be difficult and therefore is not advised.
The closed loop approximation method can also be used
for recycling within a life cycle stage (e.g., the creation
and reuse of scrap during production). material acquisition  
& pre-processing         production       distribution  
      & storageuse end-of-life 
virgin material  
acquisition  
& pre-processingproduction
processdistribution  
processuse
processcollection  
process
material recovery  
facility (MRF)recycled materials
pre-processingassumed virgin  
material  
displacementwaste  
treatmentwaste  
material
output
recovered
material
output
recycled
material
output
attributable processesmovement of material
through the lifecycle

--- Page 75 of 148 ---