File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 26 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A company must use only one consolidation a pproach (and related cr iterion) in creating
an inventory, although it may choose to crea te multiple inventories using different
approaches. Many agricultural bus inesses are organized as sole  proprietorships or family 
businesses and their organizational bounda ries will be correspondingly simple. As
business structures become more complex, organizational boundaries will become more
valuable in ensuring consistent accounti ng practices. Exactly which agricultural
operations are included in an inventory will depend on the business structures involved and the chosen consolidation approach (Table  5-1). For example, the member-patrons of 
a co-operative would not account for any of th at co-operative’s fluxes under the financial
control approach, but they would account for those fluxe s under the equity share
approach (Table 5-1). Figure 5-1 illustrates the application of organizational boundaries
for different accounting categories. Co-operatives  are considered furt her in Chapter 5.2.  
This Guidance makes no recommendations a bout which consolidation approach should
be used in the sector. Rather, many companie s will likely need to consider a range of
factors when selecting an approach and that  selection should be based on the reporting 
company’s business goals for GHG reporting (Tab le 5-2). For instance, a company with a
large cattle feedlot may fall under the ju risdiction of a mandatory GHG reporting
program. Because compliance with such program s typically rests with the operators of
emission sources, the company may choose the operational cont rol approach to
streamline its reporting processes. In general,  sole proprietorships will typically find the 
operational control the most straightforward approach to apply, while companies with
other business structures  may prefer any of the three appr oaches based on their specific 
business goals.      
Table 5-1.  Common types of business structures and outcomes of setting organizational 
boundaries
Type of agricultural business

Feature compared Individual
(sole
proprietorship) Partnership Corporation

Investor-oriented      Co-operative 
Who uses the services?  Non-owner 
customers Generally, non-
owner customers Generally,
non-owner customers Chiefly, the co-
operative’s members
Who owns the business?  The individual The partners The 
stockholders The member-patrons
Who votes?  None necessary The partners Common 
stockholders The member-patrons
How is voting done?  None necessary Usually by By shares of Usually, one 

--- Page 36 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

36
partners’ share
in capital common stock member-one vote
Who determines policies  The individual The partners Common 
stockholders
and directors The member-patrons
and directors
Who gets the operating
proceeds?  The individual The partners in 
proportion to
interest in
business The
stockholders in
proportion to
stock held The member-patrons
on a patronage basis
Who
accounts for
the GHG
fluxes from
business’s
agricultural
production?
And at what
percent?  Based on 
equity
share
Owner accounts
for 100% of
fluxes Each partner
accounts for a
% of the fluxes
in proportion to
interest in
business The company
accounts for a
% of fluxes
based on its
share of equity
in the business The member-patrons
on a patronage basis
Based on
financial
control The company
accounts for
100% of
fluxes The co-operative  
accounts for 100% of
the fluxes
Based on
operational
control Varies depending on contractual
and other legal provisions The co-operative  
accounts for 100% of
the fluxes

Figure 5-1.  Applying organizational boundaries. A wine company owns and operates a 
winery and a vineyard (Vineyard B). It also  owns 50% of a second vineyard (Vineyard 
A) that is operated by another company. The size of the wine company’s inventory
depends on the consolidation approach used.  

--- Page 37 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance