File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 13 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11
Table 1-2. Summary of how this Guidance maps onto each Chapter in the Corporate
Standard
Chapter in Corporate Standard Corresponding content in the Agricultural
Guidance
Chapter 1: GHG Accounting
and Reporting Principles  Chapter 3 reviews these principles 
Chapter 2: Business Goals and
Inventory Design  Chapter 2 highlights business goals specific to the 
agricultural sector
Chapter 3: Setting
Organizational Boundaries  Chapter 5 outlines recommendations  on setting 
inventory boundaries in relation to common types
of organizational structures and operational
activities in the sector Chapter 4: Setting Operational
Boundaries  
Chapter 5: Tracking Emissions
Over Time  Chapter 6 provides requirements and 
recommendations for selecting and using base
periods. Appendix I provides general information
on performance metrics
Chapter 6: Identifying and
Calculating GHG Emissions   Chapter 4 reviews the emissions sources 
associated with agriculture
 Chapter 7 reviews common approaches and data
requirements for calculating GHG fluxes  
 Appendix III summarizes a range of tools for
calculating agricultural GHG fluxes
Chapter 7: Managing Inventory
Quality   Chapter 7 outlines recommendations for 
addressing uncertainty in GHG flux data and
prioritizing data collection efforts
Chapter 8: Accounting for GHG
Reductions  Chapter 9 provides requirements for accounting for 
renewable energy projects on farms
Chapter 9: Reporting GHG
Emissions  Chapter 9 describes the t ypes of information that 
are either mandatory or op tional to publicly report
Chapter 10: Verification of GHG
emissions   
Chapter 11: Setting GHG
Targets   
Appendix A: Accounting for
Indirect Emissions from Electricity   
Appendix B: Accounting for
Sequestered Atmospheric
Carbon  Chapter 8 outlines requirements and 
recommendations for accounting for the emissions
and removals of biogenic CO 2. Appendix II
provides examples to illu strate this accounting.  
Appendix C: Overview of GHG
Programs   
Appendix D: Industry Sectors  

--- Page 12 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

12
 and Scopes  
Appendix E: Base Year
Adjustments   
Appendix F: Categorizing GHG
Emissions from Leased Assets  Chapter 5 summarizes the requirements for lease 
accounting

 Table 1-3.  Summary of main recommendations  in this Guidance for applying 
requirements in the Corporate Standard.  
Chapter in the
Corporate
Standard Requirements in the Corporate
Standard  Additional, sector-specific 
recommendations in the
Agricultural Guidance  
Chapter 1.
GHG
Accounting
and Reporting
Principles   Base GHG accounting and 
reporting on the following
principles: relevance,
completeness, consistency,
transparency, and accuracy.  
Chapter 3.
Setting Organizational Boundaries   Select a single consolidation 
approach to establish the
organizational boundaries.  
Chapter 4.
Setting
Operational
Boundaries   Separately account for and 
report on scope 1 and 2, at a
minimum.  Accounting should take
appropriate note of production
contracts and other forms of
agricultural contracting, land
and equipment leases, and
membership of co-operatives.  
Chapter 6.
Tracking Emissions Over Time   Choose and establish a base 
period, and specify the reasons for choosing that period.

 The base period shall be the
earliest point in time for which verifiable data are available on scope 1 and scope 2 emissions.

 Develop a base period
emissions recalculation
policy, and clearly articulate the basis and context for any recalculations. If applicable,
the policy shall state any “significant threshold”.
 Recalculate the base period  Multi-year base periods are
recommended for many companies.

--- Page 13 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

13
inventory to reflect changes in
organizational structures or calculation methods, or the discovery of errors, that significantly impact the base period inventory.
Chapter 9.
Reporting
GHG
Emissions  Companies shall report:  

 An outline of the operational
boundaries chosen and, if
scope 3 is included, a list
specifying which types of
activities are covered.
 An outline of the
organizational boundaries
chosen, including the chosen
consolidation approach. Companies should report: