File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 54 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

79
 Table I-1.  Advantages and disadvantages of common performance metrics  
Metric Advantages Disadvantages
GHG flux per
unit land area (e.g., flux / ha)  Useful to companies that define
policies or that manage large amounts of land (e.g., government agencies)
 Reflective of the overall level of
GHG fluxes on farms  Fails to consider efficiency of farm
production   
GHG flux per
unit product
(e.g., flux / tonne beef)  Better allows for comparisons within
the same industry  
 Better able to represent the effects of
mitigation measures that have a relatively small GHG impact, but that nonetheless improve productivity  
 Performance data are frequently
sought by buyers on a per-product basis   Calculation may be complicated by the 
variety of products that come from
farms and the different allocation
methods used to assign GHG fluxes (see below)
 Does not consider product value  
 Does not reflect the overall climate
impact of farms (which would vary depending on the volume of products
produced)
GHG flux per unit of farm
input (e.g., flux / MJ metabolisable energy intake)  Provides an understanding of the
effects of feed type and amount on
animal systems, or of the efficiency
of nutrient use in cropping systems   Calculation may be complicated by the 
need to allocate GHG fluxes

GHG flux per
unit of quality
content in final
product (e.g., per unit of fat, protein or metabolisable energy content)  Considers a fundamental objective of
most agricultural production – to provide food energy  
 Calculation may be complicated by the
need to allocate GHG fluxes

Allocating GHG data for cal culating performance metrics

Agricultural production frequently  results in the generation of  by-products or co-products, 
especially if farms have on-site product processing  facilities. In additi on, certain agricultural 
activities will contribute to multiple streams of products (and their co/by-products), especially on
mixed farms (Figure I-1). For instance, fertiliz er application will support not only crop growth,
but also livestock production, if so me of the primary output (the cr op) is used as livestock feed.  
Allocation  is the process of partit ioning GHG flux data from a fa rm to the different product 
streams from that farm. Allocation may be needed  when computing intensity ratios for individual 
products. Allocation may also be needed when:
‐ Reporting GHG data to customers that are acc ounting for their scope 3 emissions and that
therefore only require information on the specific GHG fluxe s attributable to the products
they purchased.

--- Page 80 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

80
‐ Allocating GHG fluxes between scope 1 and scope 3.
Allocations will not be necessary wh en a farm produces only one output. They should not be
done to calculate the GHG fluxes that a re to be reported in a corporate inventory , except to
allocate between scope 1 and scope  3. Also, this Guidance is not concerned with allocations for 
product-level GHG accounting – for guidance on th is topic, see the GHG Protocol Product
Standard, sectoral life cycl e accounting guidance, or produc t category rules.       
Should allocations be performed, note that co-p roducts without economic value are considered
wastes and should have no GHG fl uxes allocated to them. Also, if GHG fluxes are allocated,
they should sum to the total flux initially calculated.   

Figure I-1.  Illustration of a common process requiring allocation