File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 7 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

guidance[09]
guidanceCompanies should first identify their business goals before conducting product
GHG inventories.  Doing so can bring clarity and assist in selecting the appropriate 
methodology and data to develop the inventory.  
This standard has been designed as a comprehensive
accounting and reporting framework to enable a
company to gather information to serve all the business
goals defined below and outlined in table 2.1.
2.1 Climate change management
Product GHG inventories, performed according to a
consistent framework, provide a quantitative tool to help
understand GHG risks along a product’s life cycle. Product
inventories also can be used to understand emissions
reductions and cost savings opportunities, as GHG emissions
generally relate to energy use and can be a proxy for
inefficiencies in a product system. The use of product GHG
inventories can help product manufacturers avoid the pitfall
of focusing too heavily on the most proximate or obvious
emission sources associated with a product’s production
while missing major emission reduction and cost-saving
opportunities elsewhere in the life cycle.
Performing a product inventory can also be a proactive
approach to assessing future risks related to life cycle
GHG emissions. GHG regulations are already in place
in a number of countries and may be enacted in many
more in the future. Energy is becoming a scarcer
resource, creating price volatility and reduced reliability. Understanding the location and amount of GHGs in a
product’s life cycle is valuable information when assessing
a company’s risk exposure from that product. Investors are
becoming more wary of companies that are not evaluating
and managing these and other GHG related risks.
A company can better model potential future costs of
regulations by using a product inventory to evaluate a
product’s life cycle GHG risks.  For example, completing a 
product inventory can increase understanding of where
there are energy intensive operations in the life cycle.  A 
company can then use this understanding to inform
strategies for reducing dependency on fossil fuels, such
as switching to a less energy intensive product material
or increasing the use of intermodal transportation for
product distribution. Stakeholders (e.g., investors) may
also like to see this risk assessment publicly reported and
there is growing demand for mandatory disclosure of
GHG risk in some countries.
2.2 Performance tracking
Product inventories provide detailed information on
the relative size and scale of emission sources within life
cycle stages and across the entire product system. This
information may be used to identify the largest emission

--- Page 12 of 148 ---