File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 92 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GHG registry A public database of organizational GHG emissions and/or project reductions. For example, the US
Department of Energy 1605b Voluntary GHG Reporting Program, CCAR, World Economic Forum’s GlobalGHG Registry. Each registry has its own rules regarding what and how information is reported.(Introduction, Chapter 2, 5, 8, 10)
GHG removal Absorbtion or sequestration of GHGs from the atmosphere.
GHG sink Any physical unit or process that stores GHGs; usually refers to forests and underground/deep sea
reservoirs of CO
2.
GHG source Any physical unit or process which releases GHG into the atmosphere.
GHG trades All purchases or sales of GHG emission allowances, offsets, and credits.
Global Warming Potential (GWP) A factor describing the radiative forcing impact (degree of harm to the atmosphere) of one unit of a
given GHG relative to one unit of CO2.
Group company / subsidiary The parent company has the ability to direct the financial and operating policies of a group
company/subsidiary with a view to gaining economic benefits from its activities. (Chapter 3)
Heating value The amount of energy released when a fuel is burned completely. Care must be taken not to confuse
higher heating values (HHVs), used in the US and Canada, and lower heating values, used in all othercountries (for further details refer to the calculation tool for stationary combustion available atwww.ghgprotocol.org).
Indirect GHG emissions Emissions that are a consequence of the operations of the reporting company, but occur at sources
owned or controlled by another company. (Chapter 4)
Insourcing The administration of ancillary business activities, formally performed outside of the company, using
resources within a company. (Chapter 3, 4, 5, 9)
Intensity ratios Ratios that express GHG impact per unit of physical activity or unit of economic value (e.g. tonnes of
CO
2emissions per unit of electricity generated). Intensity ratios are the inverse of productivity/effi-
ciency ratios. (Chapter 9, 11)
Intensity target A target defined by reduction in the ratio of emissions and a business metric over time e.g., reduce
CO2per tonne of cement by 12% between 2000 and 2008. (Chapter 11)
Intergovernmental Panel on International body of climate change scientists. The role of the IPCC is to assess the scientific,
Climate Change (IPCC) technical and socio-economic information relevant to the understanding of the risk of human-induced
climate change (www.ipcc.ch).
Inventory A quantified list of an organization’s GHG emissions and sources.
Inventory boundary An imaginary line that encompasses the direct and indirect emissions that are included in the inven-
tory. It results from the chosen organizational and operational boundaries. (Chapter 3, 4)
Inventory quality The extent to which an inventory provides a faithful, true and fair account of an organization’s GHG
emissions. (Chapter 7)
Joint Implementation (JI) The JI mechanism was established in Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol and refers to climate change miti-
gation projects implemented between two Annex 1 countries. JI allows for the creation, acquisitionand transfer of “emission reduction units” (ERUs).
Kyoto Protocol A protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Once entered
into force it will require countries listed in its Annex B (developed nations) to meet reduction targetsof GHG emissions relative to their 1990 levels during the period of 2008–12.GLOSSARY 99

--- Page 102 of 116 ---