File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 17 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

hen planning the consolidation of GHG data, it is
important to distinguish between GHG accountingand GHG reporting. GHG accounting concerns the
recognition and consolidation of GHG emissions from operations in which a parent company holds an interest(either control or equity) and linking the data to specificoperations, sites, geographic locations, businessprocesses, and owners. GHG reporting, on the otherhand, concerns the presentation of GHG data in formatstailored to the needs of various reporting uses and users.
Most companies have several goals for GHG reporting,
e.g., official government reporting requirements, emissionstrading programs, or public reporting (see chapter 2).In developing a GHG accounting system, a fundamentalconsideration is to ensure that the system is capable ofmeeting a range of reporting requirements. Ensuringthat data are collected and recorded at a sufficientlydisaggregated level, and capable of being consolidatedin various forms, will provide companies with maximumflexibility to meet a range of reporting requirements.
Double counting
When two or more companies hold interests in the samejoint operation and use different consolidation approaches(e.g., Company A follows the equity share approach whileCompany B uses the financial control approach), emissionsfrom that joint operation could be double counted. Thismay not matter for voluntary corporate public reportingas long as there is adequate disclosure from the companyon its consolidation approach. However, double countingof emissions needs to be avoided in trading schemes andcertain mandatory government reporting programs.
Reporting goals and level of consolidation
Reporting requirements for GHG data exist at variouslevels, from a specific local facility level to a moreaggregated corporate level. Examples of drivers forvarious levels of reporting include:
Official government reporting programs or certain
emissions trading programs may require GHG data tobe reported at a facility level. In these cases, consoli-dation of GHG data at a corporate level is not relevant Government reporting and trading programs may
require that data be consolidated within certaingeographic and operational boundaries (e.g., the U.K.Emissions Trading Scheme)
To demonstrate the company’s account to wider stake-
holders, companies may engage in voluntary publicreporting, consolidating GHG data at a corporate levelin order to show the GHG emissions of their entirebusiness activities.
Contracts that cover GHG emissions
To clarify ownership (rights) and responsibility (obliga-tions) issues, companies involved in joint operations maydraw up contracts that specify how the ownership ofemissions or the responsibility for managing emissionsand associated risk is distributed between the parties.Where such arrangements exist, companies may option-ally provide a description of the contractual arrangementand include information on allocation of CO
2related
risks and obligations (see Chapter 9).
Using the equity share or control approach
Different inventory reporting goals may require differentdata sets. Thus companies may need to account for theirGHG emissions using both the equity share and thecontrol approaches. The
GHG Protocol Corporate Standard
makes no recommendation as to whether voluntarypublic GHG emissions reporting should be based on theequity share or any of the two control approaches, butencourages companies to account for their emissionsapplying the equity share and a control approach sepa-rately. Companies need to decide on the approach bestsuited to their business activities and GHG accountingand reporting requirements. Examples of how these maydrive the choice of approach include the following:

Reflection of commercial reality. It can be argued that
a company that derives an economic profit from acertain activity should take ownership for any GHGemissions generated by the activity. This is achievedby using the equity share approach, since thisapproach assigns ownership for GHG emissions on thebasis of economic interest in a business activity. Thecontrol approaches do not always reflect the full GHGemissions portfolio of a company’s business activities,but have the advantage that a company takes fullownership of all GHG emissions that it can directly
influence and reduce.GUIDANCESetting Organizational Boundaries
CHAPTER 3 20W

--- Page 23 of 116 ---