File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 82 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[105]
CHAPTER 13 Reporting
guidanceIt is important to recognize that public disclosure does
not mean there is one homogenous audience with a
uniform set of requirements. Table 13.1  lists distinct 
audiences for a product GHG inventory report, and
identifies how the reporting requirements can help
address their needs. This is not an inclusive list as other
audiences not identified here may still find value in
reports produced following the reporting requirements
in the Product Standard .
13.3.3 Disclaimer
Providing a disclaimer ensures that readers understand the
scope and intended purpose of the inventory results and
are aware of any limitations. (See box 13.1 for an example.)
13.3.4 Use of results
The audience of the public report may be most
interested in what the company is doing, or plans to
do, to reduce the GHG emissions associated with the
product as a result of the inventory. Additionally, the The results presented in this report are unique to the
assumptions and practices of company X. The results
are not meant as a platform for comparability to other
companies and/or products. Even for similar products,
differences in unit of analysis, use and end-of-life stage
profiles, and data quality may produce incomparable
results. The reader may refer to the GHG Protocol
Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
(www.ghgprotocol.org ) for a glossary and additional
insight into the GHG inventory process. Box [13.1] Example disclaimer

--- Page 108 of 148 ---

[106]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidanceaudience may be interested in what they can do, as a
user or consumer of the product, to reduce their impact
on the inventory. Therefore, a company should inform
its stakeholders of the steps it plans to implement as
well as measures its customers or users can implement,
in order to reduce emissions based on the inventory
results. If this is a subsequent report, a company should
also provide an overview of any reductions achieved.
This should be brief and highlight key initiatives or
results. Examples include:
•A plan to focus reductions around a few key emission
sources;
•Information on how users/consumers can reduce key
emission sources ( e.g., reuse, following manufacturer
use instructions, purchasing green power, etc.); and/or • A summary of reductions or increases based on a
previous inventory, highlighting the most effective
initiatives or the reasons why emissions have increased.
Increases in emissions over the reduction-reporting period
should be reported with a clear indication that the figure
represents an increase rather than a reduction. A minus
sign should not be used as this may confuse the audience.
A key step in completing the report is to review the
purposes and context of the study and summarize the
overall conclusions that can be drawn from the inventory.
This step involves evaluating key accounting choices
exercised in developing the inventory and providing a
perspective on the significance and limitations in the
product life cycle study. Companies should also clarify
the purposes that the study sought to fulfill and the
decisions that were outside its purview.  

--- Page 109 of 148 ---