File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 70 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TYPE OF TARGET
Reduce absolute emissions
MP: not normally constrained
Reduce GHG intensity
Improve BPE
(efficiency)
Improve PE
(efficiency)LEVEL OF DECISION-MAKING
(IN GENERAL AND ON TARGET)
Corporate
All levels depending on scale
(e.g. new venture, new plant, operational)
Business in consultation with corporate
Business
Business
Facility, supported by Shell Global Solutions EnergiseTMCHAPTER 11 Setting a GHG Target 77GUIDANCEThe Royal Dutch/Shell Group, a global energy corporation, discovered when implementing its voluntary GHG reduction target that one of
the biggest challenges was to cascade the target down to the actions of all employees who influence target performance. It was concluded
that successful implementation required different targets at different levels of the company. This is because each of the compo nents that
underlie absolute GHG emissions is influenced by decision-making at various management levels (from the corporate level down to  indi-
vidual businesses and facilities).
Absolute GHG emissions at a plant (tonnes of CO2-e.)  =  Function (MP x  BPE x PE)
MP Quantity of product manufactured by a facility. This is fundamental to the need to grow and is therefore controlled at corporat e
level. GHG emissions are typically not managed by limiting this component.
BPE Best process energy use per tonne. The optimal (or theoretical) energy consumed (translates to emissions) by a particular
design of plant. The type of plant built is a business-level decision. Significant capital decisions may be involved in buildin g a
new plant incorporating new technology. For existing plants, BPE is improved by significant design change and retrofitting. Thi s
could also involve large capital expenditure.
PE Plant efficiency index. An index that indicates how the plant is actually performing relative to BPE. PE is a result of day-to- day
decisions taken by plant operators and technicians. It is improved also by the Shell Global Solutions EnergiseTM programme,
which typically requires low capital expenditure to implement.
Royal Dutch/Shell found that while this model is probably an oversimplification when it comes to exploration and production fac ilities, it
is suitable for manufacturing facilities (e.g., refineries and chemical plants). It illustrates that an absolute target could o nly be set at the
corporate level, while lower levels require intensity or efficiency targets. Royal Dutch/Shell: The target cascade
ACTIONS THAT
REDUCE EMISSIONS
See below
--------
See below
Building new plants
with new technology
Retrofitting and changing
design of plants
Increase plant
operating efficiency
2.  Decide on the target type
There are two broad types of GHG targets: absolute and
intensity-based. An absolute target is usually expressedin terms of a reduction over time in a specified quantityof GHG emissions to the atmosphere, the unit typicallybeing tonnes of CO
2-e. An intensity target is usually
expressed as a reduction in the ratio of GHG emissionsrelative to another business metric.
1The comparative
metric should be carefully selected. It can be the outputof the company (e.g. tonne CO
2-e per tonne product, per
kWh, per tonne mileage) or some other metric such assales, revenues or office space. To facilitate transparency,companies using an intensity target should also report theabsolute emissions from sources covered by the target.Box 4 summarizes the advantages and disadvantages
of each type of target. Some companies have both anabsolute and an intensity target. Box 5 provides exam-ples of corporate GHG targets. The Royal Dutch/Shellcase study illustrates how a corporate wide absolutetarget can be implemented by formulating a combina-tion of intensity targets at lower levels ofdecision-making within the company.
3.  Decide on the target boundary
The target boundary defines which GHGs, geographic oper-ations, sources, and activities are covered by the target.The target and inventory boundary can be identical, or

--- Page 80 of 116 ---