File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 69 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[87]
CHAPTER 11 Calculating Inventory Results[87]
referred to as emission discounting). In this standard,
inventory results shall not be calculated with weighting
factors. This is true for both biogenic and non-biogenic
emissions, removals, and products. Companies may show
the impact of delayed emissions and removals separately
from the inventory results. It is important to note that
if a weighting factor is applied to calculate the impact
of delayed emissions or removals in the end-of-life
stage, the same factor needs to be applied to end-of-life
allocation of co-products and recycled materials.
Offsets and avoided emissions are both classified as
actions that occur outside the boundary of the product’s
life cycle. Offsets are emission credits (in the form of
emission trading or funding of emission-reductions1
projects) that a company purchases to offset the studied
product’s inventory results. Avoided emissions are
quantified as emissions reductions that are indirectly
caused by the studied product or a process that occurs
in the studied product’s life cycle. Avoided emissions as
defined here are not the same as emissions reductions
that occur due to directly attributable reduction projects,
or allocated emissions using the system expansion
allocation method. Purchased offsets and avoided
emissions shall not be deducted from the product’s
total inventory results, but may be reported separately.
Guidance on using offsets to meet reduction targets is
available in chapter 14.
Companies shall report the amount of carbon
contained in the product or its components
that is not released to the atmosphere
during waste treatment, if applicable. For
cradle-to-gate inventories, companies shall
report the amount of carbon contained in the
intermediate product.

Many products contain carbon as part of their chemical
makeup or composition. This carbon, which can be
biogenic or non-biogenic, is either recycled or reused
in another product cycle, released as CO2 or CH4 during
waste treatment (due to combustion or decomposition),
or stored as a result of waste treatment (due to land
filling or other treatments that prevent decomposition). Companies shall report when carbon contained in
a product or its components is not released to the
atmosphere during waste treatment and therefore is
considered stored. The amount of carbon stored will
depend on the waste treatment process, the scientific
understanding of the product’s degradation in certain
environments, and the time period chosen. More
information on time period is available in chapter 7.
In cradle-to-gate inventories, contained carbon leaves the
boundary of the inventory as part of the intermediate
product. For intermediate product cradle-to-gate inventory
results to be useful to a downstream customer doing a final
product cradle-to-grave inventory, companies shall report
the amount of carbon contained in the product leaving the
boundary (e.g., gate). Companies may include additional
information about the end-of-life properties of an
intermediate product separate from the inventory results.
requirements

--- Page 90 of 148 ---