File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 49 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

energy input
wasteinputs outputs
9.2 Requirements
Companies shall allocate emissions
and	removals	to	accurately	reflect	the 	
contributions of the studied product and
co-product(s) to the total emissions and
removals of the common process.
A studied product, as defined in chapter 6, is the product
on which the GHG inventory is performed. A co-product
is produced during the studied product’s life cycle and
has value as an input into another product’s life cycle.
To abide by the principle of completeness and accuracy,
companies shall allocate emissions and removals to
accurately reflect the contribution of the studied product
and co-product(s) to the total emissions and removals of
the common process. A co-product without economic
value is considered a waste and, hence, no emissions or
removals are allocated.
Companies shall avoid allocation wherever
possible by using process subdivision,
redefining	the	functional	unit,	or	using 	
system expansion.  

--- Page 65 of 148 ---

[63]CHAPTER 09 Allocation
requirements
Method Definition
Process subdivision Dividing the common process into sub-processes.
Redefining the unit  
of analysis Inclusion of the co-products (additional functions) in the functional unit.
System expansion Using the emissions from an alternative product that comprises the same functional
unit as a co-product to estimate the emissions of the co-product. Only applicable when
companies have direct knowledge of the function and eventual use of the co-product.  Table [9.1]  Methods to avoid allocationTable 9.1 describes the methods companies shall  
use to avoid or minimize the use of allocation in a
product inventory.
If allocation is unavoidable, companies
shall allocate emissions and removals based
on the underlying physical relationships
between the studied product and co-
product(s). When physical relationships
alone cannot be established or used as
the basis for allocation, companies shall
select either economic allocation or another
allocation	method	that	reflects	other 	
relationships between the studied product
and co-product(s).Table 9.2 describes the methods companies shall use to
perform allocation, starting with physical allocation.
Companies shall apply the same allocation
methods to similar inputs and outputs
within the product’s life cycle.
To abide by the principle of consistency, companies shall
apply the same allocation methods to similar inputs and
outputs, for example, when an allocated co-product output
is also an input to another process within the life cycle.  

For allocation due to recycling, companies
shall use either the closed loop
approximation method or the recycled
content	method	as	defined	by	this	standard. 	
Method Definition
Physical allocation Allocating the inputs and emissions of the system based on an underlying physical
relationship between the quantity of product and co-product and the quantity of
emissions generated.
Economic allocation Allocating the inputs and emissions to the product and co-product(s) based on the
market value of each when they exit the common process.
Other relationships Allocating the inputs and emissions to the product and co-product(s) based on
established and justifiable relationships other than physical or economic. Table [9.2] Method to perform allocation

--- Page 66 of 148 ---