File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 56 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

compliance ” market in GHG credits highlights theimportance of delineating project reductions that are tobe used as offsets with a credible quantification methodcapable of providing verifiable data . Reporting project based reductions It is important for companies to report their physicalinventory emissions for their chosen inventory bound - aries separately and independently of any GHG tradesthey undertake . GHG trades 3should be reported in its public GHG report under optional information — eitherin relation to a target ( see chapter 11 ) or corporateGUIDANCEAccounting for GHG Reductions CHAPTER 8 60 - - - Page 63 of 116 - - -

inventory (see chapter 9). Appropriate information addressing the credibility of purchased or sold offsets orcredits should be included. When companies implement internal projects that reduce GHGs from their operations, the resulting reductions areusually captured in their inventory’s boundaries. Thesereductions need not be reported separately unless they aresold, traded externally, or otherwise used as an offset orcredit. However, some companies may be able to makechanges to their own operations that result in GHG emissions changes at sources not included in their owninventory boundary, or not captured by comparing emissions changes over time. For example: Substituting fossil fuel with waste-derived fuel thatmight otherwise be used as landfill or incineratedwithout energy recovery. Such substitution may haveno direct effect on (or may even increase) acompany’s own GHG emissions. However, it couldresult in emissions reductions elsewhere by anotherorganization, e.g., through avoiding landfill gas andfossil fuel use. Installing an on-site power generation plant (e.g., acombined heat and power, or CHP , plant) thatprovides surplus electricity to other companies mayincrease a company’s direct emissions, whiledisplacing the consumption of grid electricity by thecompanies supplied. Any resulting emissions reduc-tions at the plants where this electricity would haveotherwise been produced will not be captured in theinventory of the company installing the on-site plant. Substituting purchased grid electricity with an on-sitepower generation plant (e.g., CHP) may increase acompany’s direct GHG emissions, while reducing theGHG emissions associated with the generation of gridelectricity. Depending on the GHG intensity and thesupply structure of the electricity grid, this reductionmay be over- or underestimated when merelycomparing scope 2 emissions over time, if the latterare quantified using an average grid emission factor. These reductions may be separately quantified, for example using the GHG Protocol Project Quantification Standard, and reported in a company’s public GHG report under optional information in the same way asGHG trades described above. CHAPTER 8 Accounting for GHG Reductions 61GUIDANCEAlcoa, a global manufacturer of aluminum, is implementing avariety of strategies to reduce its GHG emissions. One approachhas been to purchase renewable energy certificates, or RECs, tooffset some of the company’s GHG emissions. RECs, which repre-sent the environmental benefits of renewable energy unbundledfrom the actual flow of electrons, are an innovative method ofproviding renewable energy to individual customers. RECs repre-sent the unbundled environmental benefits, such as avoided CO 2 emissions, generated by producing electricity from renewablerather than fossil sources. RECs can be sold bundled with theelectricity (as green power) or separately to customers interestedin supporting renewable energy. Alcoa found that RECs offer a variety of advantages, including direct access to the benefits of renewable energy for facilities thatmay have limited renewable energy procurement options. InOctober 2003, Alcoa began purchasing RECs equivalent to 100%of the electricity used annually at four corporate offices in T ennessee, Pennsylvania, and New York. The RECs Alcoa is purchasing effec-tively mean that the four corporate centers are now operating onelectricity generated by projects that produce electricity from land-fill gas, avoiding the emission of more than 6.3 million kilograms(13.9 million pounds) of carbon dioxide annually. Alcoa choseRECs in part because the supplier was able to provide RECs to allfour facilities through one contract. This flexibility lowered theadministrative cost of purchasing renewable energy for multiplefacilities that are served by different utilities. For more information on RECs, see the Green Power Market Development Group’s Corporate Guide to Green Power Markets:Installment #5 (WRI, 2003).Alcoa: Taking advantage of renewable energy certificates NOTES 1Primary effects are the specific GHG reducing elements or activities(reducing GHG emissions, carbon storage, or enhancing GHG removals)that the project is intended to achieve. 2This problem with the temporary nature of GHG reductions is sometimesreferred to as the “permanence” issue. 3The term “GHG trades” refers to all purchases or sales of allowances,offsets, and credits.