File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 70 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[88]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidance11.3 Guidance
11.3.1  Calculating the inventory results of the 
studied product
Companies should follow these steps when calculating
the GHG impact of the studied product:
1.  Choose a GWP value
Because radiative forcing is a function of the
concentration of GHGs in the atmosphere, and because
the methodology to calculate GWP continues to
evolve, GWP factors are reassessed every few years
by the IPCC. The most current GWP factors published
by the IPCC at the time of this standard’s publication
are the factors published in the Fourth Assessment
Report (2007). The Fifth Assessment Report is set
to be completed in 2013-2014 and will likely contain
updated factors. A table of the most recent GWP
values is available at ( www.ghgprotocol.org ).
Companies may choose to use other GWP values. For
example, some companies may want to use the second
assessment report values to be consistent with national
inventories following the UNFCCC. Although it is required
that companies calculate inventory results using the
100-yr GWP, companies may choose to calculate and
separately report results using a 20 or 500 year GWP
factors or other impact assessment metrics such as global
temperate potential (GTP) if they feel this would be
useful information to their stakeholders.
Multipliers or other corrections to account for radiative
forcing may be applied to the GWP of emissions arising
from aircraft transport. When used, the type of multiplier
and its source should be disclosed in the inventory report.
2.  Calculate CO2e using collected data
The following equations illustrate how to calculate CO2e
for an input, output, or process based on activity data,
emission factors, and GWP. More information on data
collection and sources of emission factors are available in
chapter 8.
When process or financial activity data is collected, the
basic equation to calculate CO2e for an input, output, or
process is:
kg CO2e  =   Activity Data  x  Emission Factor  x  GWP  
(unit)                                 [kg GHG/unit]                        [kg CO2e/kg GHG]When direct emissions data has been collected, an emission 
factor is not needed and the basic equation to calculate
inventory results for an input, output, or process is:
kg CO2e  =   Direct Emissions Data  x  GWP  
(kg GHG)                                                 [kg CO2e/kg GHG]        
If direct emissions data and activity data are available,
companies may find benefit in completing and calculating
both ways as a cross-check.
When CO2 is removed from the atmosphere by the
product during the use phase (e.g., CO2 uptake by
cement), the removal data may come in the form of a
removal rate per mass or volume of product. However,
the most typical form of atmospheric CO2 removal is due
to biogenic uptake during photosynthesis. In this case,
companies usually only know the amount of biogenic
carbon contained in the material or product. To convert
this to CO2, the amount of carbon is multiplied by the
ratio of molecular weights of CO2 (44) and carbon (12),
respectively. CO2 removal data, like direct emissions data,
does not need to be multiplied by an emission factor and
can simply be multiplied by the GWP of 1 for CO2.
kg CO2e  =   kg Biogenic Carbon  x  (44/12)  x  GWP  
                    [kg CO2e/kg GHG]
Alternatively, companies may want to sum all emissions
and removals per GHG per unit of analysis before applying
the GWP. This approach is recommended if companies
wish to have the option of reporting results separately by
GHG or using a different GWP value.
Companies should be cognizant of significant figures and
rounding rules when calculating emissions and removals,
particularly when using emissions factors from a life
cycle database or software program that automatically
calculates emissions when activity data are given as an
input. The number of significant figures of the emission
data should not exceed that of the activity data or
emission factor with the least significant figures used in
the calculation.

--- Page 91 of 148 ---