File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 109 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[136]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
Primary data  Data from specific processes in the studied product’s life cycle.
Process activity data  Physical measures of a process that result in GHG emissions or removals.
Product  Any good or service. 
Product category  Group of products that can fulfill equivalent functions.13
Product distribution  A life cycle stage that begins when the finished studied product leaves the gate of the  
 and storage stage  production facility and ends when the consumer takes possession of the product.
Product GHG inventory  Compilation and evaluation of the inputs, outputs, and the potential GHG impacts of  
a product system throughout its life cycle.
Product rule  A document containing additional specifications needed to enable comparisons or 
declarations about a product or product category.
Production stage  A life cycle stage that begins when the product components enter the production 
site for the studied product and ends when the finished studied product leaves the
production gate.
Proxy data  Data from a similar activity that is used as a stand-in for the given activity. Proxy data can 
be extrapolated, scaled up, or customized to represent the given activity.
Recycling processes  Processes that occur as a result of a product or material being reused or recycled as a 
material input into another product’s life cycle.
Reference flow The amount of studied product needed to fulfill the function defined in the unit of analysis.14
Removal  The sequestration or absorption of GHG emissions from the atmosphere, which most 
typically occurs when CO2 is absorbed by biogenic materials during photosynthesis.
Reporting company  The company performing the product GHG inventory in conformance with the  
Product Standard.
Same inherent properties  When a recycled material has maintained its properties (e.g., chemical, physical) such that  
 (recycling)  it can be used as a direct replacement of virgin material.
Scope 3 inventory  A reporting organization’s indirect emissions other than those covered in scope 2.  
A company’s scope 3 inventory includes the upstream and downstream emissions of the
reporting company.
Secondary data  Process data that are not from specific processes in the studied product’s life cycle.
Sector guidance  A document or tool that provides guidance for performing a product GHG inventory 
within a given sector.

--- Page 139 of 148 ---

Glossary
[137]Service life  The amount of time needed for a product to fulfill the function defined in the unit of 
analysis.
Studied product  The product for which the GHG inventory is performed.
Third party (external) Assurance performed by a person(s) from an organization independent of the product  
 assurance  GHG inventory determination process.
Time period  The period of time when attributable processes occur during the studied product’s life 
cycle, from when materials are extracted from nature until they are returned to nature at
the end-of-life (e.g., incinerated) or leave the studied product’s life cycle (e.g., recycled).
Qualitative uncertainty  A general and imprecise term which refers to the lack of certainty in data and 
methodology choices, such as the application of non-representative factors or methods,
incomplete data on sources and sinks, lack of transparency, etc.
Quantitative uncertainty  Measurement that characterizes the dispersion of values that could reasonably be 
attributed to a parameter (adapted from ISO 1995).15
Unit of analysis  The basis on which the inventory results are calculated; the unit of analysis is defined as 
the functional unit for final products and the reference flow for intermediate products.
Upstream  GHG emissions or removals associated with processes that occur in the life cycle of a 
product prior to the processes owned or controlled by the reporting company.16
Use stage  A life cycle stage that begins when the consumer takes possession of the product and 
ends when the used product is discarded for transport to a waste treatment location or
recycled into another product’s life cycle.
Waste  An output of a process that has no market value.

--- Page 140 of 148 ---