File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 57 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[71]
CHAPTER 09 Allocation
guidance9.3.5 Comparing allocation results
When one allocation method is not clearly more suitable
than another, companies should perform multiple
allocations with different methods and compare the
results. This is particularly important when companies
are deciding whether physical, economic, or another
allocation method is more appropriate. If several methods
are performed and similar results are obtained, the choice
between the methods should not impact the inventory
results and the company should note this in the inventory.
report. If the allocation method(s) result in different
GHG emissions, companies should select the allocation
method that provides the more conservative result (e.g.,
the method that allocates more emissions to the studied
product as opposed to the co-products).
Companies are required to disclose and justify the methods
used to avoid allocation or perform allocation. Companies
may also report a range of results as part of the qualitative
uncertainty description in the inventory report.
Alcoa, a leading producer of aluminum, performed
a cradle-to-grave GHG inventory of their LvL One
aluminum truck wheel. Recycling occurs twice during
the life cycle of the wheel. First, scrap created during
the wheel fabrication process is sent to be recycled in
an ingot casting facility,
and second, the wheels
themselves are recycled
at the end-of-life. Both
metal streams fall into the
category of the closed loop
approximation method as
described in the standard.
The recycled metal is
processed, remelted,
and cast into secondary aluminum ingot with the same inherent properties as
primary metal. Because of this, it can be assumed that
the recycled metal displaces the production of virgin
metal in another product’s life cycle.
To account accurately for the recycling activity, Alcoa
calculated the mass of recycled metal during the wheel
fabrication process using a mass balance. For end-of-
life recycling, Alcoa assumed a recycling rate of 95  
percent based on peer-reviewed literature data specific
to the recycling rates of aluminum in the commercial
vehicle sector.
Alcoa achieved a 10 percent reduction in the total
inventory results compared to an LvL One aluminum
wheel with no recycling.  achieved a  
10% reduction  
in the total
inventory results
compared to an
LvL One aluminum
wheel with  
no recyclingAlcoa9.3.6 Methods for allocation due to recycling
Closed loop approximation method
The closed loop approximation method accounts for
the impact that end-of-life recycling has on the net
virgin acquisition of a material. Its name derives from
the assumption that the material being recycled is used
to displace virgin material input with the same inherent
properties5. The closed loop approximation method is
also known as the following: the 0/100 method; the end-
of-life approach as defined and supported by many in the
metal industry6; the recyclability substitution approach
in the ILCD Handbook7; and the closed loop8 method
defined in ISO 14044:2006 and shown with examples in
ISO 14049:2000.
Since the closed loop approximation method is defined
as a method to allocate recycled materials that maintain
the same inherent properties as its virgin material input,
the properties (e.g., chemical, physical) of the recycled
material have to be similar enough to the properties
of the virgin material input to be used interchangeably
without any additional changes to the product’s life cycle.
A process map illustrating the closed loop approximation
method is given in figure 9.5.

--- Page 74 of 148 ---