File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 41 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[51]
CHAPTER 08 Collecting Data and Assessing Data Quality
guidance8.3.4 Identifying data types
Identifying the data types used in an inventory will
provide companies with a better understanding of the
data and their quality. Typically, data can be gathered in
one of two ways:
1.     Directly measuring or modeling the emissions 
released from a process
2.     Collecting activity data and emission factors for 
a process and multiplying the activity data by the
emission factor
The sources of data used in the inventory should be
documented in the data management plan (see Appendix
C). Direct emissions data, activity data (process and
financial), and emission factors are types of data defined
in this standard.
Direct emissions data
Direct emissions data are derived from  emission 
releases and are determined through direct monitoring,
stoichiometry, mass balance, or similar methods.
Examples of direct emissions data include:
 •Emissions from an incinerator measured through  
a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS)
•A chemical reaction’s emissions determined using
stochiometric equation balancing
•Fugitive refrigerant emissions determined using a
mass balance approach
Activity data
Activity data are the  quantitative measure of a level of 
activity that results in GHG emissions. Activity data can be
measured, modeled, or calculated.
There are two categories of activity data: process activity
data and financial activity data.
Process activity data
Process activity data are physical measures of a process
that results in GHG emissions or removals. These data
capture the physical inputs, outputs, and other metrics
of the product’s life cycle. Process activity data, when
combined with a process emission factor, result in the
calculation of GHG emissions. Examples of process activity
data include:Box [8.2]  Using environmentally extended input-
output emission factors
Environmentally extended input-output (EEIO)
models estimate energy use and/or GHG emissions
resulting from the production and upstream supply
chain activities of different sectors and products
within an economy. The resulting EEIO emissions
factors can be used to estimate GHG emissions for
a given industry or product category. EEIO data are
particularly useful in screening emission sources
when prioritizing data collection efforts.
EEIO models are derived by allocating national GHG
emissions to groups of finished products based on
economic flows between industry sectors. EEIO
models vary in the number of sectors and products
included and how often they are updated. EEIO data
are often comprehensive, but the level of granularity
is relatively low compared to other sources of data.1
•Energy (e.G., Joules of energy consumed)
•Mass (e.G., Kilograms of a material)
•Volume (e.G., Volume of chemicals used)
•Area (e.G., Area of a production facility)
•Distance (e.G., Kilometers travelled)
•Time (e.G., Hours of operation)
Financial activity data
Financial activity data are monetary measures of a process
that results in GHG emissions. Financial activity data,
when combined with a financial emission factor (e.g.,
environmentally extended input-output [EEIO] emission
factor), result in the calculation of GHG emissions.
While process activity data measure the physical inputs,
outputs, and other metrics of a process, financial activity
data measure the financial transactions associated with
a process.
If a company initially collects financial activity data on a
process input and then determines the amount of energy
or material inputs using a conversion factor, the resulting
activity data are considered process data. For example,

--- Page 54 of 148 ---