File Name: 2_E1_2021-06-30_VO_2021_1119_EUKG_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:55
Original Size: 0.54 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 25 of 31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 11 of 17 ---

(j) the need to maintain, manag e and enhance natural sinks in the long term and prot ect and restore biodiversity ;
(k) inve stment needs and oppor tunities;
(l) intern ational developments and efforts under taken to achi eve the long-ter m objectives of the Paris Agreement and the
ultimat e objective of the UNFCCC;
(m) existing information on the projected indicative Union greenhouse gas budget for the 2030-2050 period referred to in
paragraph 4.
6. Within six months of the second global stoc ktake refer red to in Article 14 of the Paris Agreement, the Commission
may propose to revise the Union 2040 climate target in accordance with Article 11 of this Regulation.
7. The provi sions of this Article shall be kept under review in light of internati onal developments and efforts under taken
to achi eve the long-ter m objectives of the Paris Agreement, including with regar d to the outcomes of international
discussions on common time frames for nationally deter mined contr ibutions.
Article 5
Adaptation to climate change
1. The relevant Union institutions and the Member States shall ensure continuous progress in enhancing adapt ive
capacity , strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerability to climat e change in accordance with Article 7 of the Paris
Agreement.
2. The Commission shall adopt a Union strategy on adapt ation to climate chang e in line with the Paris Agreement and
shall regularly review it in the conte xt of the review provided for in point (b) of Article 6(2) of this Regulation.
3. The relevant Union institutions and the Member State s shall also ensure that policies on adapt ation in the Union and
in Member States are coherent, mutually suppor tive, provid e co-benef its for sectoral policies, and work towards bette r
integration of adapt ation to climate change in a consiste nt manner in all policy areas, including relevant socioeconomic
and environmental policies and actions, where appropr iate, as well as in the Union’s extern al action. They shall focus, in
particular , on the most vulnerable and impa cted populations and sectors, and identify shor tcomings in this regard in
consultation with civil society .
4. Member State s shall adopt and implemen t national adaptation strateg ies and plans, taking into consideration the
Union strateg y on adap tation to climate chang e refer red to in paragraph 2 of this Article and based on robust climate
change and vulnerability analyses, progress assessments and indicator s, and guided by the best available and most recent
scientific evidence. In their national adap tation strategies, Member States shall take into account the particular
vulnerability of the relevant sector s, inter alia, agriculture, and of water and food systems, as well as food secur ity, and
promote nature-based solutions and ecosyste m-based adaptation. Member States shall regularly updat e the strategies and
include the related updat ed information in the repor ts to be submitted under Article 19(1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1999.
5. By 30 July 2022 , the Commission shall adopt guidelines setting out common principles and practices for the
identif ication, classification and prudential management of mater ial physical climate risks when planning, developing,
executi ng and monit oring projects and programmes for projects.
Article 6
Assessment of Union prog ress and measures
1. By 30 September 2023 , and ever y five years thereaf ter, the Commission shall assess, together with the assessment
provid ed for under Article 29(5) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1999:
(a) the collective progress made by all Member State s towards the achi evement of the climate-neutrality objective set out in
Article 2(1) of this Regulation;EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Union 9.7.2021                                                                                                                                          L 243/11  

--- Page 12 of 17 ---