File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 52 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Accounting for ‘avoided’ emissions
Many renewable energy projects may have GHG impacts that extend beyond the farm
gate – they may help to di splace (or ‘avoid’) the emissi ons from fossil fuel-based
electricity generation elsewhere on the grid that would have occurred in the absence of
the project. Importantly, renewa ble energy generation projects  do not always result in a 
physical reduction in emissions from fossil fuel consumption. For example:
 On-site renewable energy that is sold to th e grid: the total emissions of a fossil-fuel
plant are affected by the aggregate demand of all consumers connected to the grid,
such that the sale of renewable energy may be balanced by an increased demand for
electricity amongst other grid consumers, w ith no net change in absolute emissions
from the fossil-fuel plant.   
 Switching from residual fuel to wood wast e produced on a farm: such switching may
lead to emissions reductions from crude oil refining and waste fuel disposal, but
whether these reductions are actually realized depends on the demand for fuel oil by
other organizations.  
In these cases, the behavior of other consumer s – which is outside of the control of the
reporting company – means avoided emissions do not necessarily occur. As a result,
avoided emissions shall not be reported within the scopes and they shall not be used to
‘net’ emissions14. However, estimates of avoided emissions may be reported as a memo
item, as long as the underlying assumptions  and appropriate cal culation methodologies 
are also described. The Project Protocol pr ovides guidance releva nt for calculating
avoided emissions.  
Accounting for transactions in offset credits
Should a company sell an offset that has been generated within its organizational
boundaries, it shall remove the associated emissions reduc tions from its corporate
inventory to prevent double count ing. It should also disclose the protocol used to verify
the emissions reductions.    

14 Avoided emissions are also not quantified as part of product life cycle inventories under the GHG
Protocol Product Standard.  

--- Page 76 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

76

Appendices 	

--- Page 77 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

77
Appendix I: Performance metrics
The Corporate Standard and this Guidance only require the reporting of absolute GHG
flux data. GHG performance metrics do not have to be reported. However, they can provide important insights  into a company’s GHG performance and are generally 
recommended as part of an effective GHG reporting and management system. For instance, they can be used to:
 Evaluate performance over time (e.g., compare figures from different years, identify
trends in data, and show performance in  relation to targets and base periods). 
 Improve comparability between different sizes of operations by normalizing figures
(e.g., by assessing the impact of differently sized operations on the same scale).  
This Appendix:
 Summarizes the various types of GH G performance metrics that exist.
 Provides general recommendations for the calcula tion, use, and reporting of metrics.   
Types and usage of performance metrics