File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 116 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

World Resources Institute (WRI)
The World Resources Institute is a global environmental
think tank that goes beyond research to put ideas into
action. We work with governments, companies, and
civil society to build solutions to urgent environmental
challenges. WRI’s transformative ideas protect the earth
and promote development because sustainability is
essential to meeting human needs and fulfilling human
aspirations in the future.
WRI spurs progress by providing practical strategies
for change and effective tools to implement them.
We measure our success in the form of new policies,
products, and practices that shift the ways governments
work, companies operate, and people act.
We operate globally because today’s problems know
no boundaries. We are avid communicators because
people everywhere are inspired by ideas, empowered by
knowledge, and moved to change by greater understanding.
We provide innovative paths to a sustainable planet through
work that is accurate, fair, and independent.
WRI organizes its work around four key goals:
 •People & Ecosystems:  Reverse rapid degradation 
of ecosystems and assure their capacity to provide
humans with needed goods and services.
 •Governance:  Empower people and strengthen 
institutions to foster environmentally sound and
socially equitable decision-making.
 •Climate Protection:  Protect the global climate system 
from further harm due to emissions of greenhouse
gases and help humanity and the natural world adapt
to unavoidable climate change.
 •Markets & Enterprise:  Harness markets and 
enterprise to expand economic opportunity and
protect the environment.
In all its policy research and work with institutions,
WRI tries to build bridges between ideas and action,
meshing the insights of scientific research, economic and
institutional analyses, and practical experience with the
need for open and participatory decision-making.World	Business	Council	  
for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
The WBCSD is a CEO-led, global coalition of some  
200 companies advocating for progress on sustainable
development. Its mission is to be a catalyst for
innovation and sustainable growth in a world where
resources are increasingly limited. The Council provides
a platform for companies to share experiences
and best practices on sustainable development
issues and advocate for their implementation,
working with governments, non-governmental and
intergovernmental organizations. The membership
has annual revenues of USD 7 trillion, spans more
than 35 countries and represents 20 major industrial
sectors. The Council also benefits from a network
of 60 national and regional business councils and
partner organizations, a majority of which are based in
developing countries.
Disclaimer
The GHG Protocol Product Life Cycle Accounting and
Reporting Standard , is designed to promote best
practice GHG accounting and reporting.  It has been 
developed through an inclusive multi-stakeholder
process involving experts from businesses, non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), governments,
and others convened by the World Resources
Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development (WBCSD). While WBCSD
and WRI encourage use of the Product Standard by all
corporations and organizations, the preparation and
publication of reports or program specifications based
fully or partially on this standard is the full responsibility
of those producing them. Neither  WBCSD and WRI, 
nor other individuals who contributed to this standard
assume responsibility for any consequences or damages
resulting directly or indirectly from its use in the
preparation of reports, program specifications, or the
use of reports based on the Product Standard .

--- Page 148 of 148 ---

www.wri.org
www.wbcsd.org
www.ghgprotocol.orgThe Greenhouse Gas Protocol
provides the foundation for
sustainable climate strategies
and more efficient, resilient and
profitable organizations. GHG
Protocol standards are the most
widely used accounting tools
to measure, manage and report  
greenhouse gas emissions. Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard GHG PROTOCOL WRI      WBCSD