File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 58 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

, it only revises its inventories to report the CO 2 fluxes that occurred during years 20 – 25 . This is because year 20 was established as its base pe riod . Table II - 4 describes how the changes in C stocks are amor tized by the reporting company . Figure II - 2 . The reporting company purchases land that is undergoing changes in C stocks because of a shift in land use made by a prior owner ( Case C ) - - - Page 87 of 103 - - - GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance 87

Table II-4.  The amortization schedule for Case C. 

--- Page 88 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

88
Appendix III: Tools for calculating agricultural GHG fluxes

Overview
This Appendix lists some of the most widely used  tools (spreadsheets, so ftware and protocols) 
for calculating GHG fluxes in agriculture. Thr ee broad classes of tools are covered:
 Tools suitable for farm managers. These are ge nerally web- or Excel-based calculators that
can be used with commonly available types of activity data. They tend to implement a
variety of the calculation appr oaches described in Table 7- 1; namely, emission factors,
empirical or process models, or some combination of these approaches.
 General catalogues of calculation methodologi es. These describe formulae and default
emission factors that can be used to calculate flux data for an extens ive range of emissions
sources. They do not provide an interface for performing calculations.
 Tools suitable for academic use. These are primarily process-based models intended for
academic research. They have extensive requirements in terms of data inputs, labor and expertise, and would not be recommended fo r use by farm managers. They are described
here because they underpin many of  the more accessible resources.  

Table III-1 lists the GHGs and operations covered by each tool , while Table III-2 provides
further information on each tool, such as its geographic focus and type of interface.  
Notes and Caveats
 These tools typically generate GHG flux data in  a format that is not automatically in 
conformance with this Guidance. Users will of ten therefore need to reformat these data
(e.g., to divide them by scopes) for the purpos e of developing a cor porate GHG inventory.   
 This Appendix does not attempt to provide an exhaustive list of t ools, but is merely
intended as an illustrative gui de. The tools listed here may change over time and companies
are encouraged to check the corresponding websites for updated information.
 Many different combinations of environmental and management factors will affect
agricultural GHG fluxes. For exampl e, even if a tool is rele vant to, say, ‘cropland’ or
‘livestock’ operations, as indicated in Table III-1, it may not cover the specific
combinations of interest.  
 The tools’ coverage of specialty crops and more complex livestock systems is less
comprehensive than that for commodity crops and relatively simple livestock systems.  
 The tools may employ different definitions fo r the same management practices and land
use categories. Companies should ensure that co nsistent definitions are applied when using
multiple tools for a single inventory.  
 This Appendix focuses on non-mechanical sour ces, although many of the tools listed will
also cover mechanical sources, mostly  fuel use and fertilizer production. 
 Tools for product-, project- and natio nal-level assessments are excluded.

--- Page 89 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

89

Table III-1.  Publicly available tools for calculating agricultural GHG fluxes1 
Tool GHG Operation  CO 2 
N2O
CH 4
Cropland
Horticulture
Grazing land
Grassland
Agroforestry
Wineyards /
Orchards
Livestock
Forest
Land use
change
Rice
production
Wetlands
Energy use
Tools suitable for farm managers
Brazil GHG Protocol
Program calculation
tool      

Carbon Accounting for
Land Managers
(CALM)    

Carbon calculator for
New Zealand
Agriculture and
Horticulture                  
Climate Friendly Food
(CFF) Carbon
Calculator                  
COLE-EZ 1605b
Forest Carbon
Reporting Tool                            
COMET-Farm:
CarbOn Management
Evaluation Tool for
whole FARM GHG
accounting          

--- Page 90 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance