File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:25
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 144 of 226
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[91]
guidanceCHAPTER 11 Calculating Inventory Results[91]
offsets were reported in a product inventory. Similarly if
a company sells reductions that occur at sources included
in the boundary for use as offsets, these should not be
included in tracking performance towards their own
reduction target. Companies should separately report any
sold offsets from sources that they own or control that
are part of the product boundary.
In this standard, avoided emissions are quantified as
emissions reductions that are indirectly caused by market
responses to the studied product or process that occurs
in the studied product’s life cycle. For example, consider
a company that performs a GHG inventory on energy-
efficient appliances. Avoided emissions can be calculated
by assuming that the energy-efficient appliances replace
non-efficient appliances in the market place. The company
also installs an energy-efficient wood-fired boiler in the
production facility to reduce emissions. Avoided emissions
can be calculated by assuming that the use of the wood-
fired boiler reduces the demand for coal-fired power.
This standard does not allow avoided emissions to be
subtracted from the total inventory results. However,
companies may report avoided emissions separately
in the inventory report. Avoided emissions are often
calculated using the consequential approach, which
among other things considers how emissions might
change as a result of a shift in demand (see chapter 5 for
more information). Companies calculating and reporting
avoided emissions should also consider any indirect
emissions caused by market responses to the studied
product or its life cycle. For example, indirect land-use
change impacts are a form of indirect impact that could
increase the GHG inventory of a product and should also
be reported separately if other avoided emissions are
considered. It is not appropriate to consider only the
emissions savings associated with indirect effects.
In LCA, the term avoided emissions is sometimes used
to describe allocation due to system expansion, or
emission reductions due to a reduction project within
the product’s boundary. These cases are not considered
avoided emissions as defined by this standard and
therefore are not required to be reported separately
from the inventory results. However, the requirements
for allocation (chapter 9) and performance tracking
(chapter 14) are applicable in these cases.  Endnotes
1 Emissions increases can also be indirectly caused by the studied
product or process that occurs in the studied product’s life cycle
and should also be reported separately with avoided emissions.DuPontTM Sorona® is an advanced polymer that
contains 37 percent renewably sourced (e.g., biogenic)
ingredients by weight and can be used in place of
traditional petrochemical polymers in a wide range