File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 29 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

accountingfor commuting emissions , companies may find that several practical opportunities exist for reducing them . For example , whenWRI moved to new office space , it selected a building located closeto public transportation , reducing the need for employees to drive to work . In its lease , WRI also negotiated access to a locked bikeroom for those employees who cycle to work . Finally , teleworkprograms significantly reduce commuting emissions by avoiding ordecreasing the need to travel . World Resources Institute : Innovations in estimating employee commuting emissions - - - Page 35 of 116 - - -

For participating in GHG markets or obtaining GHG credits, it would be unacceptable for two organizationsto claim ownership of the same emissions commodityand it is therefore necessary to make sufficientprovisions to ensure that this does not occur betweenparticipating companies (see chapter 11). SCOPES AND DOUBLE COUNTING The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard is designed to prevent double counting of emissions between differentcompanies within scope 1 and 2. For example, thescope 1 emissions of company A (generator of electricity) can be counted as the scope 2 emissions ofcompany B (end-user of electricity) but company A’sscope 1 emissions cannot be counted as scope 1 emis-sions by company C (a partner organization ofcompany A) as long as company A and company Cconsistently apply the same control or equity shareapproach when consolidating emissions. Similarly, the definition of scope 2 does not allow double counting of emissions within scope 2, i.e., two differentcompanies cannot both count scope 2 emissions fromthe purchase of the same electricity. Avoiding this typeof double counting within scope 2 emissions makes it auseful accounting category for GHG trading programsthat regulate end users of electricity. When used in external initiatives such as GHG trading, the robustness of the scope 1 and 2 definitions combinedwith the consistent application of either the control orequity share approach for defining organizational bound-aries allows only one company to exercise ownership ofscope 1 or scope 2 emissions.CHAPTER 4 Setting Operational Boundaries 33 ABB, an energy and automation technology company based inSwitzerland, produces a variety of appliances and equipment,such as circuit breakers and electrical drives, for industrial appli-cations. ABB has a stated goal to issue Environmental ProductDeclarations (EPDs) for all its core products based on life cycleassessment. As a part of its committment, ABB reports bothmanufacturing and product use phase GHG emissions for avariety of its products using a standardized calculation methodand set of assumptions. For example, product use phase calcula-tions for ABB’s 4 kW DriveIT Low Voltage AC drive are based on a15-year expected lifetime and an average of 5,000 annual oper-ating hours. This activity data is multiplied by the averageelectricity emission factor for OECD countries to produce totallifetime product use emissions. Compared with manufacturing emissions, product use phase emissions account for about 99 percent of total life cycle emis-sions for this type of drive. The magnitude of these emissions andABB’s control of the design and performance of this equipmentclearly give the company significant leverage on its customers’emissions by improving product efficiency or helping customersdesign better overall systems in which ABB’s products areinvolved. By clearly defining and quantifying significant valuechain emissions, ABB has gained insight into and influence overits emissions footprint.ABB: Calculating product use phase emissions associated with electrical appliances NOTES 1The terms “direct” and “indirect” as used in this document should notbe confused with their use in national GHG inventories where ‘direct’refers to the six Kyoto gases and ‘indirect’ refers to the precursors NOx,NMVOC, and CO. 2The term “electricity” is used in this chapter as shorthand for elec-tricity, steam, and heating/cooling. 3For some integrated manufacturing processes, such as ammonia manu-facture, it may not be possible to distinguish between GHG emissions fromthe process and those from the production of electricity, heat, or steam. 4Green power includes renewable energy sources and specific clean energytechnologies that reduce GHG emissions relative to other sources of energythat supply the electric grid, e.g., solar photovoltaic panels, geothermalenergy, landfill gas, and wind turbines. 5A T&D system includes T&D lines and other T&D equipment (e.g., transformers). 6“Purchased materials and fuels” is defined as material or fuel that is purchased or otherwise brought into the organizational boundary of the company. GUIDANCE