File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:16
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 111 of 225
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Investigate whether biases or other characteristics that
could affect data quality have been previously identi-fied (e.g., by communicating with experts at aparticular facility or elsewhere). For example, a biascould be the unintentional exclusion of operations atsmaller facilities or data that do not correspondexactly with the company’s organizational boundaries.
Extend quality management measures to cover any
additional data (sales, production, etc.) used to esti-mate emission intensities or other ratios.
EMISSION ESTIMATES
Estimated emissions for a source category can becompared with historical data or other estimates toensure they fall within a reasonable range. Potentiallyunreasonable estimates provide cause for checkingemission factors or activity data and determiningwhether changes in methodology, market forces, orother events are sufficient reasons for the change. Insituations where actual emission monitoring occurs(e.g., power plant CO
2emissions), the data from moni-
tors can be compared with calculated emissions usingactivity data and emission factors.
If any of the above emission factor, activity data, emis-
sion estimate, or other parameter checks indicate aproblem, more detailed investigations into the accuracyof the data or appropriateness of the methods may berequired. These more detailed investigations can also be utilized to better assess the quality of data. Onepotential measure of data quality is a quantitative andqualitative assessment of their uncertainty.Inventory quality and inventory uncertainty
Preparing a GHG inventory is inherently both anaccounting and a scientific exercise. Most applicationsfor company-level emissions and removal estimatesrequire that these data be reported in a format similar tofinancial accounting data. In financial accounting, it isstandard practice to report individual point estimates(i.e., single value versus a range of possible values). Incontrast, the standard practice for most scientific studiesof GHG and other emissions is to report quantitativedata with estimated error bounds (i.e., uncertainty). Justlike financial figures in a profit and loss or bank accountstatement, point estimates in a corporate emission inven-tory have obvious uses. However, how would or shouldthe addition of some quantitative measure of uncertaintyto an emission inventory be used?
In an ideal situation, in which a company had perfect
quantitative information on the uncertainty of its emis-sion estimates at all levels, the primary use of thisinformation would almost certainly be comparative.Such comparisons might be made across companies,across business units, across source categories, orthrough time. In this situation, inventory estimates couldeven be rated or discounted based on their qualitybefore they were used, with uncertainty being the objec-tive quantitative metric for quality. Unfortunately, suchobjective uncertainty estimates rarely exist.
TYPES OF UNCERTAINTIES
Uncertainties associated with GHG inventories can be broadly categorized into