File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 28 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

operational control over the contracted produc tion and should therefore account for 100 % of the associated emissions under scope 1 or 2 using the operationa l control approach . The accounting under financial or equity share a pproaches may differ . In particular , if the integrator has established multi - year contra cts with individual growers and provides extensive inputs , the integrators and grower s should each then account for a portion of the emissions according to their share of investments in the production process . Figure 5 - 2 . Primary sales routes for agricultural products

2. Other forms of agric ultural contracting   
While companies can enter into production cont racts that require them to raise livestock
or grow crops for third parties,  they may enter into other ty pes of contracts that require 
third parties to perform agricultural activiti es on their own behalf . These activities may
take place either on or off the reporting companies’ farmland.   

--- Page 39 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

39
 On-farm activities:  Companies may contract third partie s to perform a subset of farming 
activities, such as harvesting or fertilizer application (s ee the example of service co-
operatives below). At the other end of the spectrum, landowners may enter into custom
farming contracts  under which contract operators supply all the labor and equipment 
needed to perform tillage, planting, pest contro l, harvesting, crop storage, and other farm
functions. With the exception of  contractor-owned equipmen t, the on-farm sources are 
scope 3 for the contractor and scope 1 for the producer/landowner, under both the
operational and financial control approaches.   
Off-farm activities:  Many different arrangements exist for the grazing or feeding of a 
company’s livestock on a third party’s land. Examples include feedlots and ajistments6.
While the livestock are on the third party’ s land, the agricultural emissions (e.g., CH 4
emissions from enteric fermentation and ma nure management) are scope 1 for the third
party and scope 3 for the producer, under both the operational a nd financial control
approaches.   

3. Leases for land and equipment  
The Corporate Standard ( Appendix F ) distinguishes between two general types of leases:  
 Capital (or financial) leases: This type of lease enables the lessee to operate an asset
and also gives the lessee all the risks and re wards of owning that asset. In a capital
lease the lessee has use of the asset over most  of its useful life. Assets leased under a 
capital or financial lease ar e considered wholly-owned a ssets in financial accounting
and are recorded as such on the balance sheet.  
 Operational leases: This type of lease enable s the lessee to operate an asset, such as a
building or a vehicle, but does not give th e lessee any of the risks or rewards of
owning that asset. In an operating lease the lessee only has use of the asset for some
of its useful life. Any lease th at is not a capital or financia l lease is an operating lease.

Whether leased assets are scope 1 or 3 for the reporting company depends on the
approach chosen to set organizational boundari es and on the type of  leasing arrangement 
(see Table 5-3 and Table 5-4).   
Land leases and operational control
For the purposes of reporting under this Gu idance, the reporting company is considered
to exert operational control of any land it leases  (Table 5-3). This is true, regardless of the 
form of rent payment (cash, crops, or both) , the amount of resour ces contributed by the
landlord, or the extent to which the landlor d is involved in management decisions. For
instance, permits for the lease of nationa l-owned grazing lands from governments might
contain requirements related to resting periods and reseeding.  The lessee retains 
operational control of th e land in these cases.  

6 Ajistments are typically defined for a shorter period  of time than pasture or grazing leases, which are 
considered separately in “Leases for land and equipment”  

--- Page 40 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance