File Name: 2_E1_2021-06-30_VO_2021_1119_EUKG_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:55
Original Size: 0.54 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 20 of 31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

and evaluate collective progress towards the achi evement of the Union’s climat e-neutrality objective. The indicative,
linear traject ory is without prejudice to any decision to deter mine a Union climate targe t for 2040. Given that the
Commission has committed itself to explor ing how the EU taxonom y can be used in the context of the European
Green Deal by the public sector, this should include information on envi ronmentally sustainable inve stment, by the
Union or by Member State s, consiste nt with Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the
Council (14)when such information becomes available. The Commission should use European and global statistics
and data where available and seek exper t scrutiny . The EEA should assist the Commission, as appropr iate and in
accordance with its annual work programme.
(38) As citizens and communities have a powerful role to play in driving the transf ormation towards climat e neutrality
forward, strong public and social engag ement on climat e action should be both encourag ed and facilitated at all
levels, including at national, regional and local level in an inclusive and accessible process. The Commission should
theref ore enga ge with all parts of society , including stakeho lders representing diffe rent sector s of the econom y, to
enable and empo wer them to take action towards a climate -neutral and climat e-resilient society , including through
the European Climate Pact.
(39) In line with the Commission’s commitment to the principles on Better Law-Making, coherence of the Union
instr uments as regar ds greenhouse gas emission reductions should be sought. The syste m of measur ing the progress
towards the achi evement of the climate -neutrality objective as well as the consist ency of measures taken with that
objective should build upon and be consist ent with the governance framew ork laid down in Regulation (EU)
2018/1999, taking into account all five dimensions of the Energy Union. In particular , the system of repor ting on a
regular basis and the sequencing of the Commission’s assessment and actions on the basis of the repor ting should be
aligned to the requirements to submit information and provide repor ts by Member States laid down in Regulation
(EU) 2018/1999. Regulation (EU) 2018/1999 should theref ore be amended in order to include the climate-
neutrality objective in the relevant provisions.
(40) Climate change is by definition a trans-boundar y challeng e and coordinat ed action at Union level is needed to
effectively supplement and reinf orce national policies. Since the objective of this Regulation, namely to achieve
climat e neutrality in the Union by 2050, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member State s, but can rather , by
reason of the scale and effects, be better achieve d at Union level, the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with
the principle of subsidiar ity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union. In accordance with the principle
of propor tionality , as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessar y to achieve that
objective,
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGUL ATION:
Article 1
Subject matter and scope
This Regulation establishes a framewor k for the irreversible and gradual reduction of anthropog enic greenhouse gas
emissions by sources and enhancement of removals by sinks regulate d in Union law.
This Regulation sets out a binding objective of climate neutrality in the Union by 2050 in pursuit of the long-ter m
temperature goal set out in point (a) of Article 2(1) of the Paris Agreement, and provides a framew ork for achi eving
progress in pursuit of the global adapt ation goal established in Article 7 of the Paris Agreement. This Regulation also sets
out a binding Union target of a net domestic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions for 2030.
(14)Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framework to