File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 74 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[93]
guidancerequirements
12.1 Introduction
Assurance is the level of confidence that the inventory results and report are
complete, accurate, consistent, transparent, relevant, and without material
misstatements.1 Obtaining assurance over the product inventory is valuable for
reporting companies and other stakeholders when making decisions using the inventory results.
Carefully and comprehensively documenting the inventory process in a data management plan
is a vital step in preparing for assurance.
12.2 Requirements
The product GHG inventory shall be assured
by a first or third party.
Three key parties are involved in the assurance process:
1. The reporting company seeking assurance
2. Stakeholder users of the inventory report
3. The assurer(s)
When the reporting company also performs the
assurance, this is known as first party assurance. When a party other than the reporting company performs  
the assurance, this is known as third party assurance.  
Table 12.1 explains the differences between first and
third party assurance.
Both first and third party assurers should follow similar
procedures and processes. For external stakeholders,
third party assurance is likely to increase the credibility
of the GHG inventory. However, first party assurance can
also provide confidence in the reliability of the inventory
report, and can be a worthwhile learning experience for  
a company prior to commissioning third party assurance.

--- Page 96 of 148 ---

[94]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standardrequirements
Table [12.1] Types of assurance
Type of assurance Description Independence mechanism
First party assurance Person(s) from within the reporting
company but independent of the GHG
inventory determination process  
conducts internal assurance.Different lines of reporting
Third party assurance Person(s) from an organization  
independent of the product GHG  
inventory determination process  
conducts third party assurance.Different business entity from the
reporting company

Companies shall choose assurance  
providers that are independent of, and  
have	no	conflict	of	interest	with,	the 	
product GHG inventory process.

Assurers are defined as person(s) providing assurance
over the product inventory and shall be independent
of any involvement in the determination of the product
inventory or development of any declaration. Assurers
shall have no conflicts of interests, such that they can
exercise objective and impartial judgment. Inherently, assurance provided by a third party offers
a higher degree of objectivity and independence.
Companies receiving first party assurance are required
to report how potential conflicts of interests were
avoided during the assurance process (see the assurance
statement reporting requirement below for more
information). Typical threats to independence may
include financial and other conflicts of interest between
the reporting company and the assurer. These threats
should be assessed throughout the assurance process.
Companies shall report the assurance
statement in the inventory report. The
statement shall include:
 • Whether the assurance was performed  
by	a	first	or	third	party 	
• The level of assurance achieved (limited
or reasonable) including assurance
opinion or the critical review findings
•A summary of the assurance process
 • The relevant competencies of  
the assurers
 •	How	any	potential	conflicts	of	interest 	
were avoided for first party assurance

--- Page 97 of 148 ---