File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 25 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[35]CHAPTER 07 Boundary Setting
Companies shall report attributable
processes in the form of a process map.
Companies shall include a process map in their inventory
report. A process map illustrates the services, materials,
and energy needed to move a product through its
lifecycle. If specific details are considered confidential, a
company may create a simplified version for the report.  
At a minimum, the reported process map should identify
the following items:
•The defined life cycle stages
•The generalized attributional processes in each stage
•The flow of the studied product through its life cycle
•Any attributable processes excluded from the
inventory
A company should create a detailed process map for
internal use and assurance, as it serves as the basis for
data collection.
An example of a minimal process map to be reported for
the cradle-to-grave inventory of a car is given in figure 7.2.
Companies shall report any non-attributable
processes included in the boundary.
Some service, material, and energy flows are not directly
connected to the studied product during its lifecycle
because they do not become the product, make the
product, or directly carry the product through its life
cycle. These are defined as non-attributable processes. RSA, one of the
world’s leading
multinational
insurance groups,
delivers services in
over 130 countries.
RSA performed a
GHG inventory on their MORE TH>N® home insurance
policy. The MORE TH>N® home insurance policy covers
building and contents against damage, loss, or theft.
They defined the unit of analysis as the provision of an
insurance policy for a period of one year. Recognizing
the need to build on the general stages for a service
such as insurance, RSA adopted the following life cycle
stages for their inventory:
•Customer requesting a quote
•RSA providing a quote
•RSA setting up the policy and any subsequent
amendments
•RSA sending correspondence throughout the period
of coverage
•RSA servicing claims throughout the period of coverage
RSA then grouped their attributable processes by life
cycle stage, and used the results to identify where
significant GHG emissions arose in the insurance
process. This, in turn, underpins ongoing GHG-
reduction work with suppliers. used the results to
identify where
significant GHG
emissions arose in  
the insurance processRSAFigure [7.1]  The five stages of a product life cycle (simplified for illustrative purposes)
guidancerequirements

--- Page 38 of 148 ---

[36]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard [36]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standardrequirements
Examples include service, material, and energy flows  
due to:
•Capital goods (e.g., machinery, trucks, infrastructure)
•Overhead operations (e.g., facility lighting, air
conditioning)
•Corporate activities and services (e.g., research and
development, administrative functions, company sales
and marketing)
•Transport of the product user to the retail location
•Transport of employees to and from works
Companies are not required to include non-attributable
processes. However, if non-attributable processes are
included in the boundary, companies shall disclose this in
the inventory report. The boundary for final products shall include
the complete life cycle, from cradle-to-grave.
The boundary for final products shall include the cradle-
to-grave removals and emissions from material acquisition
through to end-of-life.
For intermediate products, if the function of the
corresponding final product is known, companies should
complete a cradle-to-grave inventory.
The boundary of a cradle-to-gate partial
life	cycle	inventory	shall	not	include	final 	
product use or end-of-life processes in the
inventory results. Companies shall disclose
and justify when a cradle-to-gate boundary
is	defined	in	the	inventory	report. 	* Recycling of parts is not included in this simplified examplematerial acquisition  
& pre-processing         production       distribution  
      & storageuse end-of-life 

pre-processing  
of	flat	 
rolled steele

car  
part
manufacturinge

car  
retaile

car  
assemblye  
car  
shipmente
car  
usee
pre-processing  
of plastics
(20 types)em
m
m
m
m
pre-processing  
of
painte  
car  
dismantlinge

pre-processing  
of  
lubricantse  
shreddinge