File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 15 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[19]
guidancerequirements
4.1 Introduction
The five accounting principles are intended to underpin all aspects of GHG accounting
and reporting for products. Their faithful application should help to ensure that the
product inventory constitutes a true and fair representation of its GHG emissions and
removals. Their primary function is to guide users in the implementation of this standard, in
particular when making accounting choices not specified by the standard.
4.2  Requirements
GHG accounting and reporting of a product
inventory shall follow the principles
of relevance, accuracy, completeness,
consistency, and transparency.
Relevance
Ensure that the product GHG inventory accounting
methodologies and report serves the decision-making
needs of the intended user. Present information in the
report in a way that is readily understandable by the
intended users.
Completeness
Ensure that the inventory report covers all product life
cycle GHG emissions and removals within the specified
boundaries; disclose and justify any significant GHG
emissions and removals that have been excluded. Consistency
Choose methodologies, data, and assumptions that allow
for meaningful comparisons of a GHG inventory over time.
Transparency
Address and document all relevant issues in a
factual and coherent manner, based on a clear audit
trail. Disclose any relevant assumptions and make
appropriate references to the methodologies and data
sources used in the inventory report. Clearly explain any
estimates and avoid bias so that the report faithfully
represents what it purports to represent.
Accuracy
Ensure that reported GHG emissions and removals are not
systematically greater than or less than actual emissions
and removals and that uncertainties are reduced as far
as practicable. Achieve sufficient accuracy to enable
intended users to make decisions with reasonable
assurance as to the reliability of the reported information.

--- Page 22 of 148 ---

05Fundamentals of Product Life Cycle GHG Accounting 

--- Page 23 of 148 ---

[21]
guidancerequirements
The Product Standard   builds on the framework and 
requirements established in the ISO LCA standards
(14040:2006, Life Cycle Assessment: Principles and
Framework and 14044:2006, Life Cycle Assessment:
Requirements and Guidelines) and PAS 2050,  with the 
intent of providing additional specifications and guidance
to facilitate the consistent quantification and public
reporting of product life cycle GHG inventories. Other
standards and publications such as the ILCD Handbook3
were also used as reference during the development
of this standard. The following sections clarify the
relationship between the ISO LCA framework and the
Product Standard  while identifying two fundamentals on 
which the Product Standard  is based: the life cycle and 
attributional approaches to GHG accounting. 5.2 Requirements
A GHG product inventory shall follow the
life cycle and attributional approaches.
Product GHG inventories,4 also commonly known as
product carbon footprints, are a subset of LCA because
they focus only on the climate change impact category
(the limitations of which are discussed in chapter 1).
However, the accounting methodologies and requirements
presented in this standard follow the life cycle approach as
established by ISO LCA standards 14040 and 14044.  5.1 Introduction 
Product life cycle GHG accounting is a subset of life cycle assessment (LCA), which seeks
to quantify and address the environmental aspects and potential environmental
impacts throughout a product’s life cycle from raw material extraction through to
end-of-life waste treatment.1 LCA became internationally standardized by the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO) with the publication of the 14040 series of life cycle
assessment standards. In 2008, the British Standards Institution (BSI), in partnership with
the UK Department of Environment Food and Rural Affairs ( DEFRA ) and the Carbon Trust,
published a Publicly Available Specification (PAS) for the assessment of life cycle greenhouse
gas emissions of goods and services, known as PAS 2050.2  

--- Page 24 of 148 ---