File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 43 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[53]
CHAPTER 08 Collecting Data and Assessing Data Quality
guidanceMany life cycle databases exist, and they vary in
their geographic focus, cost, update frequency,
and review processes. A few questions to use in the
selection of a database are listed below. While these
questions can be used to evaluate entire databases,
companies are required to assess the quality (both in
representativeness and data collection methods) of the
individual data points chosen from databases as part of
data quality assessment. A list of databases is available
at (www.ghgprotocol.org ).
1. Are the process data from a collection of actual
processes or estimated/calculated from other  
data sources?2. Were the data developed using a consistent
methodology?
3. For agricultural and forest products, are land-use
impacts included in the LCA emissions data? If yes,
what impacts are included?
4. How long has the database existed, and how
extensively has the database been used?
5. How frequently is the database updated?
6. How current are the data sources used for
developing the LCA emissions data?
7. Can uncertainties be estimated for the data?
8. Is there any risk that the data will be perceived as
biased and, if so, have the data and methodologies
been independently reviewed?Box [8.5] Questions to assist with selecting a lifecycle database to use with the  Product Standarddata requirement and emission factors do not need to be 
classified as primary or secondary.
If available and of sufficient quality, primary data should
be collected for all processes in the product’s life cycle.
There are several reasons why collecting primary data can
be beneficial to a company even if the processes are not
under the company’s ownership or control. For example:
•Collecting primary data from suppliers throughout
the product’s life cycle can expand transparency,
accountability, and data management to partners in
the value chain
•Primary data can better reflect changes in emissions
resulting from operational changes taken to reduce
emissions, whereas secondary data sources may not
reflect such changes
•Collecting primary data enables companies to more
effectively track and report progress toward its GHG-
reduction goals
8.3.6 Collecting secondary data
Secondary data are defined as data that are not from
specific processes in the studied product’s life cycle.
Direct emission data and process activity data that do not
meet the definition of primary data can be classified as
secondary. Financial activity data cannot be used to meet the primary data collection requirement and therefore
are always classified as secondary.   
Examples of secondary data include:
•Average number of liters of fuel consumed by a
process, obtained from a life cycle database
•Kilowatt-hours consumed by another similar process
used as a proxy in the studied product’s life cycle
 •Industry-average kilograms of material input into  
a process
•Industry-average GHG emissions from a process’s
chemical reaction
 •Amount spent on process inputs, either specific to  
the process or a company/industry average
Secondary data can come from external sources (e.g.,
lifecycle databases, industry associations, etc.) or can be
data from another process or activity in the reporting
company’s or supplier’s control that is used as a proxy for
a process in the inventory product’s life cycle. This data
can be adapted to the process or can be used “as-is” in the
studied product’s inventory. For example, suppose the
studied product’s life cycle includes a process using a steam-
generating boiler. If the company does not have primary
data for the boiler but does have process activity data for a
boiler used in another product’s life cycle, the company may
use this data for the studied product’s boiler process.

--- Page 56 of 148 ---