File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:25
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 185 of 226
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[121]
B.2		When	the	specific	land	use	is	unknown 	
When a company has limited information on the specific
land from which the product or product components
are extracted or harvested, it can be difficult to
determine how to attribute or distribute impacts.  
This situation occurs when a company buys crops or
biomass from a supplier who receives indistinguishable
shipments from a wide range of land-based sources.
Under such circumstances, primary data are not
available and secondary data are used to calculate stock
changes and determine how much land-use change
impacts should be distributed to a product.
The first step in estimating land-use changes impacts
is to determine in what location the crops or biomass
were likely grown. If the crop or biomass is grown only
in certain locations due to climates and soil types, those
locations should be used. If the crop or biomass is grown
in many locations, a company may choose the largest
producing location or the most likely location (e.g., due
to proximity to the production facility). Companies are
encouraged to perform scenario uncertainty if more than
one location is plausible.  Companies may also take an 
average of locations if data are available to support that
calculation (e.g., all locations have carbon stock change
data available). Once the location has been determined,
companies may use the following data to estimate the
carbon stock and land-use change impacts:
 •Land-use imaging and/or agricultural demand-  
based models
•Average data, including:
•International statistics
•Country- or region-specific statistical databases
•Statistical yearbooks
Land-use imaging and/or agricultural demand-based
models include using remote sensing11 or GIS data to
estimate land-use change in a particular location or
market-based models12 to estimate land-use change
based on the market trends of a crop or wood product.  
For example, if the studied product is a crop assumed to
be produced in New Zealand, and satellite imagery shows
that land use for that crop has remained constant in New
Zealand for the past 20 years, then the company can
assume that no land-use change impacts are attributable to their product. While these methods may be the most
accurate, they are often complex, time consuming, and
not freely available. Additionally, they may not provide an
accurate representation for some countries.  If a company 
has access to these tools they are encouraged to use
them to determine land-use change impacts as long as
the modeled results are justified and transparent.  
When a company does not have access to models or
imaging data, it may use average statistics to estimate