File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 42 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

59
 2.Parameter uncertainty. This is a measure of  how close the data us ed to calculate the 
inventory results (e.g., activity data and emission factors) are to the true (though
unknown) actual data and GHG fluxes. Parame ter uncertainties can be evaluated
through statistical analysis, measurement equipment, precision determinations, and
expert judgment.
Together, these sources of uncertainty affect whether GHG data are accurate enough to
meet the business goals that are driving invent ory development or to determine if changes
in GHG fluxes are the result of management changes.    
Companies  should focus on parameter uncertainty 
In general, understanding parameter uncertain ty will be the primary focus of companies
in managing inventory quality. This is becau se most companies will lack the technical
capacity to estimate model uncertainty, while mo st companies should be able to estimate
parameter uncertainty. As far as is possibl e, companies should identify and track key
uncertainty sources throughout the inventory process and iteratively check whether the
uncertainty of the results is adequate  for the company’s business goals. The GHG 
Protocol does not define acceptable uncertain ty levels. However, if the uncertainty
bounds are asymmetrical, the larger uncertainty  should be used to remain conservative. 
 Parameter uncertainty can be quantified ba sed on one or more the following:  
• Measured uncertainty (represented by standard deviations)  
• The pedigree matrix approach, based on data quality indicators (DQIs)
8  
• Default uncertainties for specific activities  or sector data (reported in various 
literature)  
• Probability distributions fr om commercial databases  
• Uncertainty factors reported in literature  
• Other approaches reported by literature
Uncertainty data for emission factors will of ten be available. For instance, the IPCC
typically provides uncertainty bounds for its Tier 1 emission factors.  
 The GHG Protocol’s Quantitative  Inventory Uncertainty tool
9 provides more information
on assessing the overall uncertainty of an i nventory and the contribution of each data
element to this uncertainty.    
Information on uncertainty should be reported
Uncertainty can be reported in many ways, in cluding through qualitati ve descriptions of
uncertainty sources, and quantitative represen tations, such as error bars, histograms,
probability density functions, etc. It is useful  to provide as complete a disclosure of 
uncertainty information as is possible. Users of the information may then weigh the total
set of information provided in judging their confidence in the information.

8 The use of DQIs involves rating individual data points  against a range of quality criteria, such as precision 
and geographical representativeness.   
9 http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/all-tools

--- Page 60 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

60
Chapter 8: Accounting for Carbon Stocks
Agricultural systems contain C in above-g round and below-ground biomass, dead organic
matter (DOM), soil organic matter, and harv ested products (Chapter 4.2). These C stocks
are reversible - any C sequestered in C stocks will eventually be emitted to the atmosphere. Also, changes in C stocks can ta ke decades to reach equilibrium following a
change in farm management or land use. Th ese special features of agriculture have
important implications for whether and how C stocks should be included within GHG
inventories.  

This chapter:
 Describes how changes in C stocks should be reported in terms of CO
2 fluxes.
 Describes the types of CO 2 fluxes that should / s hould not be included in
inventories.
 Describes how the CO 2 fluxes from long-term changes in C stocks can be spread
over multiple reporting periods.