File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:26
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 100 of 108
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

99
Crop year The period of time between two harv ests. For many crops, this period
approximates a calendar year, but for others several crop years may be
possible each calendar year.
Cultivar A cultivar is an assemblage of pl ants that (a) has been selected
for a particular character or co mbination of characters, (b) is
distinct, uniform and stable in those characters, and (c) when
propagated by appropriate means,  retains those characters.  
Custom farming
contract A contract between a landowner and an operator that requires the
operator to supply all the labor and equipment needed to perform
tillage, planting, pest control, harves ting, crop storage, and other farm
functions. The custom operator receives a fixed payment per acre from
the landowner, or a fixed payment for each operation performed. In
turn, the landowner pays all other expenses and receives the entire
crop.  
Dead organic matter A carbon pool that includes non-living biomass in: (1) dead wood that
is either standing, lying on the ground, or in the soil; and (2) litter
located on or within the mineral or organic soil.  
Denitrification The process whereby nitrates are re duced by bacteria and become
N2O, which is then released into the atmosphere.
Direct GHG emissions Emissions from sources th at are owned or controlled by the reporting
company.
Emission factor A factor allowing GHG fluxes  to be estimated from a unit of available 
activity data (e.g., tonnes of fuel consumed, tonnes of product
produced).
Enteric fermentation Fermentation that occurs in the digestive tracts of ruminant  livestock 
species (e.g., cattle and sheep) and that releases CH 4.
Equity share approach An approach used to  set organizational boundaries , wherein a 
company accounts for the emissions from an operation according to its
share of equity (or percentage of economic interest) in that operation.
Financial control An approach used to set organizational boundaries , wherein a
company accounts for 100% of the emissions from an operation over which it has the ability to direct financial and operating policies with a view to gaining economic benefits.
Forestry The theory and practice of all that constitutes the creation,
conservation and scientific management of forests and the utilization
of their resources.  
Greenhouse gas (GHG) A gas absorbs and emits radi ation within the thermal infrared range in
the atmosphere.  
GHG Flux Emissions to or removals fro m the atmosphere of GHGs.
Global warming
potential (GWP) The change in the climate system that would result from the emission
of one unit of a given GHG compared to one unit of CO 2.
Harvested wood