File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 13 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

wholly owned operations , incorporated and non - incorporated joint ventures , subsidiaries , and others . For the purposes of financial accounting , they are treated according to established rules that depend on the structure of theorganization and the relationships among the parties involved . In setting organi - zational boundaries , a company selects an approach for consolidating GHGemissions and then consistently applies the selected approach to define thosebusinesses and operations that constitute the company for the purpose ofaccounting and reporting GHG emissions . B3Setting Organizational Boundaries GUIDANCESTANDARD - - - Page 19 of 116 - - -

For corporate reporting, two distinct approaches can be used to consolidate GHG emissions: the equity share andthe control approaches. Companies shall account for andreport their consolidated GHG data according to eitherthe equity share or control approach as presented below.If the reporting company wholly owns all its operations,its organizational boundary will be the same whicheverapproach is used. 1For companies with joint operations, the organizational boundary and the resulting emissionsmay differ depending on the approach used. In bothwholly owned and joint operations, the choice ofapproach may change how emissions are categorizedwhen operational boundaries are set (see chapter 4). Equity share approach Under the equity share approach, a company accounts forGHG emissions from operations according to its share ofequity in the operation. The equity share reflects economicinterest, which is the extent of rights a company has to therisks and rewards flowing from an operation. Typically, theshare of economic risks and rewards in an operation isaligned with the company’s percentage ownership of thatoperation, and equity share will normally be the same asthe ownership percentage. Where this is not the case, theeconomic substance of the relationship the company haswith the operation always overrides the legal ownershipform to ensure that equity share reflects the percentageof economic interest. The principle of economicsubstance taking precedent over legal form is consistentwith international financial reporting standards. Thestaff preparing the inventory may therefore need toconsult with the company’s accounting or legal staff toensure that the appropriate equity share per centage is applied for each joint operation (see Table 1 for definitionsof financial accounting categories). Control approach Under the control approach, a company accounts for 100 percent of the GHG emissions from operations overwhich it has control. It does not account for GHG emis-sions from operations in which it owns an interest buthas no control. Control can be defined in either financialor operational terms. When using the control approachto consolidate GHG emissions, companies shall choosebetween either the operational control or financialcontrol criteria. In most cases, whether an operation is controlled by the company or not does not vary based on whether the finan-cial control or operational control criterion is used. Anotable exception is the oil and gas industry, which oftenhas complex ownership / operatorship structures. Thus,the choice of control criterion in the oil and gas industrycan have substantial consequences for a company’s GHG inventory. In making this choice, companies shouldtake into account how GHG emissions accounting andreporting can best be geared to the requirements ofemissions reporting and trading schemes, how it can bealigned with financial and environmental reporting,and which criterion best reflects the company’s actualpower of control.  Financial Control. The company has financial control over the operation if the former has the ability to directthe financial and operating policies of the latter with aview to gaining economic benefits from its activities. 2 For example, financial control usually exists if thecompany has the right to the majority of benefits of theoperation, however these rights are conveyed. Similarly,a company is considered to financially control anoperation if it retains the majority risks and rewardsof ownership of the operation’s assets. Under this criterion, the economic substance of the relationship between the company and the operationtakes precedence over the legal ownership status, sothat the company may have financial control over theoperation even if it has less than a 50 percent interestin that operation. In assessing the economic substanceof the relationship, the impact of potential votingrights, including both those held by the company andthose held by other parties, is also taken into account.This criterion is consistent with international financialaccounting standards; therefore, a company has finan-cial control over an operation for GHG accountingpurposes if the operation is considered as a groupcompany or subsidiary for the purpose of financialCHAPTER 3 Setting Organizational Boundaries 17STANDARD