File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 44 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An inventory program framework
A practical framework is needed to help companies
conceptualize and design a quality management systemand to help plan for future improvements. This frame-work focuses on the following institutional, managerial,and technical components of an inventory (Figure 11):
METHODS: These are the technical aspects of inventory
preparation. Companies should select or develop method-ologies for estimating emissions that accurately representthe characteristics of their source categories. The
GHG
Protocol provides many default methods and calculation
tools to help with this effort. The design of an inventoryprogram and quality management system should providefor the selection, application, and updating of inventorymethodologies as new research becomes available,changes are made to business operations, or the impor-tance of inventory reporting is elevated.
DATA: This is the basic information on activity levels,
emission factors, processes, and operations. Althoughmethodologies need to be appropriately rigorous anddetailed, data quality is more important. No method-ology can compensate for poor quality input data. Thedesign of a corporate inventory program should facilitatethe collection of high quality inventory data and themaintenance and improvement of collection procedures.
INVENTORY PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS: These are the
institutional, managerial, and technical procedures forpreparing GHG inventories. They include the team andprocesses charged with the goal of producing a highquality inventory. To streamline GHG inventory quality management, these processes and systems may be inte-
grated, where appropriate, with other corporateprocesses related to quality.
DOCUMENTATION: This is the record of methods, data,
processes, systems, assumptions, and estimates used toprepare an inventory. It includes everything employeesneed to prepare and improve a company’s inventory.Since estimating GHG emissions is inherently technical(involving engineering and science), high quality, trans-parent documentation is particularly important tocredibility. If information is not credible, or fails to beeffectively communicated to either internal or externalstakeholders, it will not have value.
Companies should seek to ensure the quality of these
components at every level of their inventory design.
Implementing an
inventory quality management system
A quality management system for a company’s inventory
program should address all four of the inventory compo-nents described above. To implement the system, acompany should take the following steps:
1. Establish an inventory quality team. This team should
be responsible for implementing a quality manage-ment system, and continually improving inventoryquality. The team or manager should coordinateinteractions between relevant business units, facilities and external entities such as governmentagency programs, research institutions, verifiers, orconsulting firms. GUIDANCEManaging Inventory Quality
50FIGURE 11: Inventory quality management system
7. Report, Document, and Archive 2. Develop Quality Management Plan
6. Institutionalize Formal Feedback Loops 3. Perform Generic Quality Checks
5. Review Final Inventory Estimates and Reports 4. Perform Source-Specific Quality Checks➡➡➡➡➡➡➡DATA
METHODS
SYSTEMS
DOCUMENTATION1. Establish Inventory Quality TeamINVENTORY QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
FEEDBACK
CHAPTER 7

--- Page 53 of 116 ---