File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 34 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[44]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
 [44]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidanceBoth relevance and significance are used in this
standard to define similar concepts.
Significance is defined as the size of emissions,
removals, or GHG intensity and is used quantitatively
throughout the standard. Significance is used in
data quality reporting (chapter 8) to describe data
that has a large impact on the inventory results.
Insignificance is also used in boundary setting and
base inventory recalculation (chapter 14) to describe
a threshold under which a process or change can be
assumed insignificant to the inventory results.
Relevance is a qualitative term used to describe how
decisions made during the inventory process impact
a company’s business goals. Examples of decisions
that consider relevance include establishing the scope
(chapter 6), including non-attributable processes, and
screening during data collection (chapter 8). When
making decisions based on relevance, it is usually
recommended that companies also consider significance. Box [7.3]  Relevance and significancegeographic location, and can vary significantly depending 
on the type of waste treatment assumed and how long
it takes for the product’s carbon to return to nature. For
example, waste that is incinerated has a very short time
period compared to waste that is disposed of in a landfill.
Additionally, not all waste treatment methods result in
the release of the carbon contained in the product into
the atmosphere. When a company knows that either
all or a portion of a product’s carbon does not return to
the atmosphere during waste treatment, a company is
required to disclose and justify this in the inventory report.
For example, lignin is a carbon-based component of wood
that does not degrade under anaerobic conditions.5
A company may not assume that carbon is stored in a
product by shortening the end-of-life time period. It
should be known that the carbon is stored indefinitely
as a result of waste treatment. For example, a company
cannot assign an end-of-life time period of five years to a
product that aerobically degrades in ten years.
7.3.7 Cradle-to-gate inventories
There are two types of intermediate products: when the
company manufacturing the intermediate product knows
the use profiles of the final product it becomes and when
the intermediate product can be used in many different
final products and therefore has a variety of possible use
profiles. Just like the unit of analysis of an intermediate
product (see chapter 6), the boundary requirements
are dependent on whether the company knows the use
profile (e.g., function) of the final product.
If the use profile is known, companies should perform
a full life cycle (cradle-to-grave) inventory of the
intermediate product. This provides companies with more
reduction opportunities by including the distribution,
retail, use and end-of-life stages, and stakeholders with a
complete picture of the product’s life cycle. An innovative
way to do this is to work with the final product producer;
using the primary data and expertise they have on the
final production, use, and end-of-life can improve the
completeness and accuracy of the inventory.
If the use profile is unknown, companies may still decide
to perform a cradle-to-grave inventory by picking a
representative or average use profile. Alternatively, a
cradle-to-gate inventory may be performed. Transparency
is important when performing a cradle-to-gate Non-attributable process that may be relevant to
some products are capital goods and infrastructure.
For example, renewable energy generation such
as hydroelectric and wind power require capital
infrastructure that may have a large GHG impact relative
to the rest of the inventory. This can be determined using
the same basis and threshold defined when determining
insignificance. Additionally, a company may see corporate
activities, a non-attributable process, as a key area of
reduction potential and therefore determine they are
relevant to include in the product inventory.
7.3.6 Time period
The total inventory time period is dependent on the
use and end-of-life stages. The use-stage time period is