File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 64 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[79]
guidancerequirements
10.1 Introduction
The term uncertainty assessment refers to a systematic procedure to quantify or qualify
the uncertainty in a product inventory. Understanding uncertainty can be crucial
for properly interpreting inventory results. Identifying and documenting sources of
uncertainty can assist companies in understanding the steps needed to improve inventory
quality and increase the level of confidence users have in the inventory results. Because the
audience for a product inventory report is diverse, companies should make a thorough yet
practical effort to communicate the level of confidence and key sources of uncertainty in the
inventory results.
This chapter provides requirements and guidance to
help companies identify, assess, and report qualitative
information on inventory uncertainty. Detailed
descriptions of quantitative approaches to assess
uncertainty, and an uncertainty calculation tool are
available at ( www.ghgprotocol.org ). While remaining
current with leading science and practice, the chapter
is intended to favor practicality and feasibility for
companies with a range of uncertainty expertise. 10.2 Requirements
Companies shall report a qualitative
statement on sources of inventory
uncertainty and methodological choices.
Methodological choices include:
•Use and end-of-life profile
• Allocation methods, including allocation
due to recycling
• Source of global warming potential
(GWP) values used
 •Calculation models  

See table 10.2 for guidance on reporting on these choices.

--- Page 82 of 148 ---

[80]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidance10.3 Guidance
10.3.1 Role of the uncertainty assessment process
Figure 10.1 illustrates the role of uncertainty assessment
within the GHG inventory process. Companies should
keep a list of uncertainties throughout the inventory
process in order to facilitate the uncertainty assessment,
assurance, and reporting processes.
While the reporting requirements are focused on
qualitative descriptions, quantitative assessments of
uncertainty can assist companies in prioritizing data
quality improvement efforts on the sources that
contribute most to uncertainty and in understanding the
influence methodological choices have on the overall
product inventory. A quantitative approach can also add
clarity and transparency in reporting on uncertainty to
inventory report readers. When available, companies
should report quantitative uncertainty results in the
inventory report. Guidance on quantifying uncertainty can
be found at ( www.ghgprotocol.org ).
10.3.2 Types of uncertainty
The results of a GHG inventory may be affected by various
types of uncertainty, which can arise from different
sources within the inventory process. Uncertainty is
divided into three categories: parameter uncertainty,
scenario uncertainty and model uncertainty, which are
defined in the following section. The categories are not mutually exclusive, but they are
evaluated and reported in different ways. For example,
the same uncertainty source might be characterized as
either a component of parameter uncertainty and/or as a
component of scenario uncertainty.
As shown in figure 10.1, these types of uncertainties arise
throughout the stages of the GHG inventory compilation
process.  Table 10.1 illustrates these various types of 
uncertainties and how each type can be presented.
Parameter uncertainty
Parameter uncertainty is the uncertainty regarding
whether a value used in the inventory accurately
represents the process or activity in the product’s life
cycle. If parameter uncertainty can be determined it can
typically be represented as a probability distribution of
possible values including the value used in the inventory
results. In assessing the uncertainty of a result, parameter
uncertainties can be propagated within a model to
provide a quantitative measure (also as a probability
distribution) of uncertainty in the final inventory result.
Single parameter uncertainty
Parameter uncertainty addresses the question, how well
do the data that are used to represent a parameter fit
the process in the product inventory. Single parameter
uncertainty refers to incomplete knowledge about the true
value of a parameter1.  It can arise in relation to three data 
types: direct emissions data, activity data, and emission Figure [10.1]  Iterative process of tracking and evaluating uncertainty
identify and track uncertainties
		 •	parameter	uncertainty
		 •	scenario	uncertainty
	 •	model	uncertaintyprioritize, quantify  
  and/or evaluatedocument and report  
  uncertaintyestablish 
the scopeset the
boundarycollect data
assess data
qualityallocate
data  
(if needed)assess
uncertaintycalculate
inventory
resultsperform
assurancereport
inventory
resultsimprove quality in areas of high uncertaintyuncertainty
assessment

--- Page 83 of 148 ---