File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 54 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

detailed assessment of the actual reduction using a
project quantification methodology.
Project based reductions and offsets/credits
Project reductions that are to be used as offsets shouldbe quantified using a project quantification method, suchas the forthcoming
GHG Protocol Project Quantification
Standard, that addresses the following accounting issues:
   SELECTION OF A BASELINE SCENARIO AND EMISSION.
The baseline scenario represents what would have
happened in the absence of the project. Baselineemissions are the hypothetical emissions associatedwith this scenario. The selection of a baselinescenario always involves uncertainty because itrepresents a hypothetical scenario for what wouldhave happened without the project. The projectreduction is calculated as the difference between the baseline and project emissions. This differs fromthe way corporate or organizational reductions aremeasured in this document, i.e., in relation to anactual historical base year.
   DEMONSTRATION OF ADDITIONALITY. This relates to
whether the project has resulted in emission reductionsor removals in addition to what would have happened inthe absence of the project. If the project reduction isused as an offset, the quantification procedure shouldaddress additionality and demonstrate that the projectitself is not the baseline and that project emissions areless than baseline emissions. Additionality ensures theintegrity of the fixed cap or target for which the offset isused. Each reduction unit from a project used as anoffset allows the organization or facility with a cap ortarget one additional unit of emissions. If the projectwere going to happen anyway (i.e., is non-additional),global emissions will be higher by the number of reduc-tion units issued to the project.
   IDENTIFICATION AND QUANTIFICATION OF RELEVANT
SECONDARY EFFECTS. These are GHG emissions
changes resulting from the project not captured by theprimary effect(s).
1Secondary effects are typically the
small, unintended GHG consequences of a project andinclude leakage (changes in the availability or quan-tity of a product or service that results in changes inGHG emissions elsewhere) as well as changes in GHGemissions up- and downstream of the project. If rele-vant, secondary effects should be incorporated intothe calculation of the project reduction.    CONSIDERATION OF REVERSIBILITY. Some projects
achieve reductions in atmospheric carbon dioxidelevels by capturing, removing and/or storing carbonor GHGs in biological or non-biological sinks (e.g.,forestry, land use management, underground reser-
voirs). These reductions may be temporary in thatthe removed carbon dioxide may be returned to theatmosphere at some point in the future throughintentional activities or accidental occurrences—such as harvesting of forestland or forest fires, etc.
2
The risk of reversibility should be assessed, togetherwith any mitigation or compensation measuresincluded in the project design.
   AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE COUNTING. To avoid double
counting, the reductions giving rise to the offset mustoccur at sources or sinks not included in the target orcap for which the offset is used. Also, if the reductionsoccur at sources or sinks owned or controlled bysomeone other than the parties to the project (i.e.,they are indirect), the ownership of the reductionshould be clarified to avoid double counting.
Offsets may be converted into credits when used to meet
an externally imposed target. Credits are convertible andtransferable instruments usually bestowed by an externalGHG program. They are typically generated from anactivity such as an emissions reduction project and thenused to meet a target in an otherwise closed system, suchas a group of facilities with an absolute emissions capplaced across them. Although a credit is usually based onthe underlying reduction calculation, the conversion of anoffset into a credit is usually subject to strict rules, whichmay differ from program to program. For example, aCertified Emission Reduction (CER) is a credit issued bythe Kyoto Protocol Clean Development Mechanism. Onceissued, this credit can be traded and ultimately used tomeet Kyoto Protocol targets. Experience from the “pre-compliance” market in GHG credits highlights theimportance of delineating project reductions that are tobe used as offsets with a credible quantification methodcapable of providing verifiable data.
Reporting project based reductions
It is important for companies to report their physicalinventory emissions for their chosen inventory bound-aries separately and independently of any GHG tradesthey undertake. GHG trades
3should be reported in its
public GHG report under optional information—eitherin relation to a target (see chapter 11) or corporateGUIDANCEAccounting for GHG Reductions
CHAPTER 8 60