File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:16
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 180 of 225
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPENDIX A 87
GHG emissions upstream
of the generation of electricity
Emissions associated with the extraction and production
of fuels consumed in the generation of purchased electricity may be reported in scope 3 under the cate-gory “extraction, production, and transportation offuels consumed in the generation of electricity.” These emissions occur upstream of the generation of electricity.Examples include emissions from mining of coal,refining of gasoline, extraction of natural gas, andproduction of hydrogen (if used as a fuel).
Choosing electricity emission factors
To quantify scope 2 emissions, the GHG Protocol
Corporate Standard recommends that companies obtain
source/supplier specific emission factors for the elec-tricity purchased. If these are not available, regional or grid emission factors should be used. For moreinformation on choosing emission factors, see the relevant GHG Protocol calculation tools available on the GHG Protocol website (www.ghgprotocol.org).
GHG emissions associated
with the consumption of electricity in T&D
Emissions from the generation of electricity that is
consumed in a T&D system may be reported in scope 3under the category “generation of electricity that isconsumed in a T&D system” by end-users. Publishedelectricity grid emission factors do not usually includeT&D losses. To calculate these emissions, it may benecessary to apply supplier or location specific T&D lossfactors. Companies that purchase electricity and trans-port it in their own T&D systems would report theportion of electricity consumed in T&D under scope 2.
Accounting for indirect emissions
associated with T&D losses
There are two types of electricity emission factors:
Emission factor at generation (EFG) and Emissionsfactor at consumption (EFC). EFG is calculated fromCO
2emissions from generation of electricity divided
by amount of electricity generated. EFC is calculatedfrom CO
2emissions from generation divided by amount
of electricity consumed. EFC and EFG are related as shown below.
As these equations indicate, EFC multiplied by the amount
of consumed electricity yields the sum of emissions attrib-utable to electricity consumed during end use andtransmission and distribution. In contrast, EFG multipliedby the amount of consumed electricity yields emissionsattributable to electricity consumed during end use only.
Consistent with the scope 2 definition (see chapter 4),
the
GHG Protocol Corporate Standard requires the use
of EFG to calculate scope 2 emissions. The use ofEFG ensures internal consistency in the treatment ofelectricity related upstream emissions categories andavoids double counting in scope 2. Additionally, thereare several other advantages in using EFG:
1)  It is simpler to calculate and widely available in
published regional, national, and international sources.
2)  It is based on a commonly used approach to calculate