File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:25
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 169 of 226
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[112]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidanceStep 5:  Recalculate the base inventory 
Overtime, changes and improvements may occur
to activity data, emission factors1, data quality, and
methodologies. When such parameter or methodological
changes influence the results of the base inventory,
the base inventory should be recalculated to ensure
comparability of emissions information over time. These
changes may include redefining attributable processes,
collecting higher quality data, or changing allocation or
recycling methodologies. As required above, any changes
made that warrant recalculation of the base inventory are
reported in the updated inventory report.  
Before recalculating a base year inventory, companies
should develop a recalculation policy to clearly articulate
the basis and context for any recalculation. Companies are
required as part of reporting (see chapter 13) to disclose
the threshold for insignificance above which a change
warrants recalculation. For example, if a new emission
factor is published that when used has a one percent
impact on the inventory results, a company may decide
that is below the threshold and opt not to recalculate
the base inventory. If a threshold for insignificance was
already established for justified exclusions (see chapter 7)
then the same threshold should be used here.
If a change is made that causes the unit of analysis to be
redefined, the base inventory cannot be recalculated. In
this case, companies need to create a new base inventory
and set a new reduction target. Step 6:  Update the inventory report
Once reductions have occurred, new data has been
collected, and the base inventory has been recalculated
(if needed), the inventory report should be updated to
include results from both the new and base inventories.
The updated inventory report must meet the requirements
of the reporting chapter and include the same reporting
elements as the base inventory. The introduction should
be updated to reflect the purpose of the update including
the reduction target, and any information that has changed
since the base inventory should be clearly noted. The
number of updated inventory reports for the studied
product should be reported, with a link to previous reports
as available. If the base inventory is recalculated, all changes
are listed.  If the base inventory was not recalculated, 
companies are required to report the threshold under
which no recalculation was warranted. In either case, both
the base inventory results and the updated results are
included in the updated inventory.
In addition to the base inventory reporting requirements,
companies should report a reduction percentage by
taking the difference between the base inventory and the
new inventory divided by the base inventory.
In the case that GHG emissions have actually increased
since the last inventory, companies should report these