File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 21 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[29]
guidanceCHAPTER 06 establishing the scope of a product inventory
6.3 Guidance
6.3.1 Choosing the studied product
A review or screening exercise of all the products a
company produces, distributes, buys, or sells3 is the
first step to identifying an individual product to study.
Companies should pick a product that is GHG intensive
as well as strategically important and aligned with their
business goals.
The results of a corporate GHG inventory following the
Corporate and Scope 3 Standard s can be used to easily
identify products or product categories that are GHG
intensive. If this inventory is not available, companies
may use environmentally extended input-output (EEIO)
tables to estimate the GHG intensity of products based
on economic transactions. (See chapter 8 for more
information on EEIO tables.) If neither is available,
companies may use physical or economic factors to rank
products by mass, volume, or spend. This option is least
preferred because physical or economic factors alone may
not correlate with GHG intensity.
Companies may decide to further evaluate a group
of products in more detail. This further evaluation
may include looking deeper into where reductions
could occur along the product’s life cycle, evaluating
the company’s potential influence on suppliers and
customers, researching
supplier relationships
and potential for
engagement, and
ranking products
based on the ability
for marketplace
differential. Companies
may consult with their
product design and/or research and development teams
to choose a product for which potential reductions
could be met through innovation such as design,
material, or manufacturing advancements. Or they may
choose a new or emerging product still in prototype
or conceptual stage where GHG reductions could be
achieved during the product design and implementation
stages of development. If it is still unclear through screening exercises and further
evaluation which product to choose, companies should
opt for a product with the largest anticipated strategic
impact and GHG reduction potential in the life cycle.
6.3.2	 Defining	the	unit	of	analysis
Defining the unit of analysis is a critical step in completing
a GHG inventory because it directly influences the
subsequent steps and results of the inventory. For example:
•The duration/service life is the basis for the product’s
use profile during boundary setting (chapter  7)
•The reference flow is the basis for all data collection
since it defines the magnitude of material or energy
inputs and outputs (chapter  8)
•A well-defined unit of analysis can avoid allocation
by including the studied product and co-products
together (chapter 9)
•The unit of analysis is the basis on which the inventory
results are reported, and therefore a transparent unit
of analysis is important to ensure inventory results are
interpreted and used correctly (chapters 11 and 13)
The following sections provide guidance on defining a
product’s function, functional unit, and reference flow,
as well as defining the unit of analysis for intermediate
products and services.
Identifying the function
The function is the service a product provides. When
the function is known (i.e., for final products and some
intermediate products), the unit of analysis is the
functional unit. Some questions a company may ask to
help identify a product’s function include:
•Why is the product created?
•What purpose does the product serve?
•What defining characteristics or expected level of
quality does the product have?
For example, if the studied product is a light bulb, the
product is created for the purpose of providing light.
The amount of service (e.g., light) that the light bulb
provides depends on characteristics such as the amount
of luminance and spectrum. In many cases, a product can
have several functions; in this step, companies should
identify all functions before selecting one to serve as the
basis of the functional unit. Companies should pick
a product that is GHG
intensive as well as
strategically important
and aligned with their
business goals.

--- Page 32 of 148 ---