File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 9 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[11]
CHAPTER 02 Defining Business Goals
guidance[11]stronger supply chain relationships, and uncover
valuable information that can be shared to help build
positive relationships with product users. For example,
a product GHG inventory of a home appliance may show
that much of the emissions occur in the use stage. This
information can provide a platform for the manufacturer
to communicate and collaborate with their customers
(e.g., the users of the appliance) to achieve lower product
life cycle emissions.  If customers then reduced emissions 
by reducing electricity use, they would also reap benefits
in the form of electricity cost savings. Another example is
a product inventory of a beverage which shows significant
emissions from packaging. These results may lead to a
partnership with packaging suppliers to reduce packaging
materials or replace them with less GHG-intensive
content. Reporting on these types of efforts and the
progress of a company’s engagement with its suppliers
can be useful information for stakeholders both external
and internal to the reporting company. 2.4	 Product	differentiation
Product differentiation is a broad term, encompassing
all the specific end uses of product GHG inventories
that may help a company distinguish its products in the
marketplace and create competitive advantage. For
example, a company may realize product differentiation
simply by conducting and publicizing a product GHG
inventory that demonstrates to stakeholders that
the brand is concerned with environmental impacts.
With consumers increasingly concerned about the
environmental impacts of their product choices, product
GHG inventories enable companies to communicate
with customers about their efforts to assess and reduce
their product-related impacts. Products may also be
differentiated by advertising that their use can lower
consumers’ own GHG emissions (and related energy
expenses). Company efforts to address product emissions
can also be an effective message to communicate to
employees in order to enhance pride in the company’s
product stewardship and can have positive impacts on
employee retention and recruitment.
As one of the Coca-Cola anchor bottlers, Swire Beverages
undertakes the manufacture, sale, and distribution of
Coca-Cola products. The company conducted life cycle
GHG studies for nine of the Coca-Cola branded products
produced in mainland China.
The results showed that packaging and refrigeration by
retailers were the processes that contributed the most
significant GHG emissions and risks, especially for small-
and medium-sized products. Swire Beverages either
leases or sells refrigerators at a discount to retailers.
Following completion of the inventory and evaluation
of reduction opportunities, the company installed
energy-efficient refrigerator equipment and aggressively
pursued hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) recovery and HFC-free
technologies. The new equipment uses 35 - 40 percent
less electricity while reducing the usage of HFC-134a, a
refrigerant with high global warming potential. Swire
also calculated that if all retailers installed the new refrigerators, it would
save 5 -16 percent
of the life cycle GHG
emissions of drinking
products depending
on their size.
Swire Beverages
and Coca-Cola also
identified packaging
reduction as a key
climate mitigation
strategy and rolled out a new packaging design for a
bottled water product in China. The new plastic bottle
design reduces packaging material weight by 34 percent
and is estimated to reduce GHG emissions by 11 percent
over the product life cycle. The new design also helps
Swire Beverages to save on the procurement cost of
packaging materials.Swire Beverages
if all retailers installed
the new refrigerators,
it would save   
5 - 16%  
of the life cycle
GHG emissions
of drinking
products1 2 3
4 5 6
7 8 9
10 11 12
13 14 15
16 171. wheat
2. tree3. mountains4. glass bottle5. plastic bottle6. aluminium can7. factory8. lorry9. cloud10. recycling bin11. recycling bin (colours         reversed)12. wind turbines13. chicken14. cow 115. cow 216. shop17. factory showing carbon       emissions (carbon          emissions are shown in       orange) 

--- Page 14 of 148 ---

[12] Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard guidance 03 Summary of Steps and Requirements

--- Page 15 of 148 ---