File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 63 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

100
Indirect N 2O emissions
from soils Emissions of N 2O from soils as a result of leaching and volatilization
processes that lead to the emissi ons being physically displaced.   
Indirect land use
change (iLUC) A pattern of land use wherein an existing crop is diverted for another
purpose and replacement crops are then grown on formerly non-
agricultural lands.
Kyoto GHGs The GHGs that are mandatorily reported in national GHG inventories
to the United Nations Framewor k Convention on Climate Change
(CO 2, CH 4, N 2O, HFCs, PFCs, and SF 6).
Land-use change The conversion of one categor y of land-use (e.g., forest) into another
(e.g., cropland) through fire, draining, clear felling or soil preparation.
Non-mechanical
sources (on farms) Either bacterial processes shaped by climatic and soil conditions (e.g.,
decomposition) or the burning of crop residues. See also Mechanical
sources.   
Manure Effluent and bedding material collected from housed animals.
Mechanical sources (on
farms) Equipment or machinery operated on farms, such as mobile machinery
(e.g., harvesters), stationary equipm ent (e.g., boilers), and refrigeration
and air-conditioning equipment. See also Non-mechanical sources .
Natural disturbance An environmental and dest ructive event that dist urbs landscape health,
structure, and/or changes resources at any given spatial or temporal scale. Disturbance agents include pathogens, insects, fires, drought, flooding, and acid rainfall.
Nitrification During nitrification, bacteria and other microorganisms oxidize the
nitrogen within ammonia (NH 3) to create nitrites, which are further
oxidized into nitrates.  
Nitrogen mineralization The process by which organi c nitrogen is converted to inorganic forms
that are available to plants.
Offset credits Tradable commodities that typically represent one metric tonne of
CO 2-equivalent  emissions reductions or sequestration . In most cases, 
offset credits are generated at specific projects (offset projects).
Organizational
boundaries The boundaries that determine the ope rations owned or controlled by
the reporting company, depending on the consolidation approach taken
(equity or control approach).
Operational boundaries The boundaries that determine the direct  and indirect  emissions 
associated with operations owned or controlled by the reporting
company.
Operational control An approach used to set  organizational boundaries, wherein a company 
accounts for 100% of the emissions from an operation over which it
has the authority to introduce and implement its own operating policies.
Payments for
Environmental Services
(PESs) Incentives offered to farmers or la ndowners in exchange for managing
their land to provide some sort of ecological service.
Product life cycle GHG
inventory A compilation and evaluation of the inputs, outputs and the potential
GHG impacts of a product – whether it be a good or a service – throughout its entire life cycle.
Product processing The treatment of an agricultural pr oduct to change its properties with
the intention of preserving it, im proving its quality, or making it

--- Page 101 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance