File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:16
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 106 of 225
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

abbreviated calculations ( i . e . , back of the envelope calculations )  Check the aggregation of data across source categories , business units , etc .  Check consistency of time series inputs and calculations  Others - - - Page 54 of 116 - - -

4. Perform source-category-specific quality checks. This includes more rigorous investigations into the appro-priate application of boundaries, recalculationprocedures, and adherence to accounting andreporting principles for specific source categories, aswell as the quality of the data input used (e.g.,whether electricity bills or meter readings are the bestsource of consumption data) and a qualitative descrip-tion of the major causes of uncertainty in the data.The information from these investigations can also beused to support a quantitative assessment of uncer-tainty. Guidance on these investigations is provided inthe section on implementation below. 5. Review final inventory estimates and reports. After the inventory is completed, an internal technicalreview should focus on its engineering, scientific,and other technical aspects. Subsequently, aninternal managerial review should focus on securingofficial corporate approval of and support for theinventory. A third type of review involving expertsexternal to the company’s inventory program isaddressed in chapter 10. 6. Institutionalize formal feedback loops. The results of the reviews in step five, as well as the results of everyother component of a company’s quality managementsystem, should be fed back via formal feedback proce-dures to the person or team identified in step one.Errors should be corrected and improvements imple-mented based on this feedback. 7. Establish reporting, documentation, and archiving procedures. The system should contain record keeping procedures that specify what information will be docu-mented for internal purposes, how that informationshould be archived, and what information is to bereported for external stakeholders. Like internal andexternal reviews, these record keeping proceduresinclude formal feedback mechanisms. A company’s quality management system and overall inventory program should be treated as evolving, inkeeping with a company’s reasons for preparing aninventory. The plan should address the company’sstrategy for a multi-year implementation (i.e., recognizethat inventories are a long-term effort), including stepsto ensure that all quality control findings from previousyears are adequately addressed. Practical measures for implementation Although principles and broad program design guidelinesare important, any guidance on quality managementwould be incomplete without a discussion of practicalinventory quality measures. A company should imple-ment these measures at multiple levels within the company, from the point of primary data collection to the finalcorporate inventory approval process. It is important toimplement these measures at points in the inventoryprogram where errors are mostly likely to occur, such asthe initial data collection phase and during calculation anddata aggregation. While corporate level inventory qualitymay initially be emphasized, it is important to ensurequality measures are implemented at all levels of disaggre-gation (e.g., facility, process, geographical, according to aparticular scope, etc) to be better prepared for GHGmarkets or regulatory rules in the future. Companies also need to ensure the quality of their histor- ical emission estimates and trend data. They can achievethis by employing inventory quality measures to mini-mize biases that can arise from changes in thecharacteristics of the data or methods used to calculatehistorical emission estimates, and by following the stan-dards and guidance of chapter 5. The third step of a quality management system, as described above, is to implement generic qualitychecking measures. These measures apply to all sourcecategories and all levels of inventory preparation.Table 4 provides a sample list of such measures. The fourth step of a quality management system is source category-specific data quality investigations. Theinformation gathered from these investigations can alsobe used for the quantitative and qualitative assessmentof data uncertainty (see section on uncertainty).Addressed below are the types of source-specific qualitymeasures that can be employed for emission factors,activity data, and emission estimates.GUIDANCEManaging Inventory Quality CHAPTER 7 52