File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 4 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[05]
CHAPTER 01 Introduction
guidance •GHG Protocol Land Use, Land-Use Change, and
Forestry Guidance for GHG Project Accounting  
(2006):  A guide to quantify and report reductions from 
land use, land-use change, and forestry, to be used in
conjunction with the Project Protocol.
•Measuring to Manage: A Guide to Designing GHG
Accounting and Reporting Programs (2007): A
guide for program developers on designing and
implementing effective GHG programs based on
accepted standards and methodologies.
1.2  Purpose of the GHG Protocol  
Product Life Cycle Accounting and
Reporting Standard
The GHG Protocol Product Life Cycle Accounting and
Reporting Standard (referred to as the Product Standard )
provides requirements and guidance for companies and
other organizations to quantify and publicly report an
inventory of GHG emissions and removals2 associated
with a specific product. The primary goal of this standard
is to provide a general framework for companies to make
informed choices to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
from the products (goods or services) they design,
manufacture, sell, purchase, or use. In the context of this
standard, public reporting refers to product GHG-related
information reported publicly in accordance with the
requirements specified in the standard.
As awareness about climate change increases and
concerns grow, investors are demanding more
transparency, and consumers are seeking greater clarity
and environmental accountability. Companies are
increasingly receiving requests from stakeholders to
measure and disclose their corporate GHG inventories,
and these requests often include a company’s products
and supply chain emissions. Companies must be able to
understand and manage their product-related GHG risks
if they are to ensure long-term success in a competitive
business environment and be prepared for any future
product-related programs and policies.
This standard focuses on emissions and removals
generated during a product’s life cycle and does not address avoided emissions or actions taken to mitigate
released emissions. This standard is also not designed to
be used for quantifying GHG reductions from offsets or
claims of carbon neutrality.
Ultimately, this is more than a technical accounting
standard. It is intended to be tailored to business realities
and to serve multiple business objectives. Companies may
find most value in implementing the standard using a
phased approach, with a focus on improving the quality of
the GHG inventory over time.
1.3  How this standard was developed
In 2008, WRI and WBCSD launched the three-year process
to develop the Product Standard.  A 25 member Steering 
Committee of experts provided strategic direction
throughout the process. The first draft of the  Product 
Standard was developed in 2009 by Technical Working
Groups consisting of 112 members representing diverse
industries, government agencies, academia, and non-
profit organizations from around the world. In 2010,
38 companies from a variety of industry sectors “road
tested” the first draft and provided feedback on its
practicality and usability, which informed a second draft.
Members of a Stakeholder Advisory Group (consisting of
more than 1,600 participants) provided feedback on both
drafts of the standard.
1.4 Who should use this standard
This standard is designed for companies and
organizations3 of all sizes in all economic sectors
and in all countries. Companies seeking a better
understanding of the GHG inventory of products they
design, manufacture, sell, purchase, or use can benefit
from the use of this standard. Interested users of the
standard within companies could include staff from
product design, procurement, research and development,
marketing, energy, environment, logistics, and corporate
sustainability departments. Policy makers and GHG
programs may also be interested in incorporating the
standard into their policy or program design.

--- Page 8 of 148 ---