File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 100 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[125]
Appendix	B.	 Land-Use Change Impacts  
B.2.1			Estimating	significance	  
for land-use change impacts
When specific land data are not available, companies may
also chose to estimate the potential significance of land-
use impacts on their products to determine if a justifiable
exclusion is appropriate. For example, a product that uses
a bio-based polymer as an input could estimate the impact
of land-use change assuming the worst case scenario (e.g.,
all comes from land that was converted from natural forest)
and determine whether this is insignificant, applying the
same rules as described in chapter 7.  If land-use impacts are 
deemed significant using this estimation, the company can
either include the worst case values in the report or go back
and try to estimate the potential impact using statistical
data.  If land-use impacts are insignificant, then this should 
be included as a justifiable exclusion in the inventory report.  
B.3	 Soil	carbon	
When land-use change occurs, some of the carbon stock
change that results is due to changes in the carbon stock of
the soil. For example, converting natural land to cultivated
land reduces the amount of carbon the soil can store.  The 
IPCC factors for calculating carbon stock changes due to
land-use change include estimates of soil carbon change.
However, soil carbon loss can continue even after land-use
change as a result of land-use practices such as harvesting
and fertilizer application. On the other hand, switching land-
use practices can improve the carbon stock of soil, resulting
in CO2 removal.  Companies may include soil carbon change 
as a result of land-use practices in their inventory results
if they are able to reasonably estimate the emissions or
removals.  Companies should report whether the soil carbon 
change is included in the inventory results.
Endnotes
1 The guidance presented here is based on methodologies and
guidelines given in the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National GHG
Inventories, Volume 4: Agriculture, Forestry, and Other Land
Use.  A company is encouraged to look to the most recent 
IPCC guidelines to ensure accurate and up-to-date accounting
of land use and land-use change emissions.  However, it is 
important to note that while the IPCC guidelines have useful and
comprehensive information, their focus is on national inventories
and therefore some details are not applicable.2 It is recognized that a change in carbon stock can result in either a
removal or emission of carbon from or to the atmosphere. However,
because this standard accounts for the GHG inventory of a product,
it is more likely that the use of biomass (and not the planting or
re-growth of biomass) will results in GHG emissions than removals.
Growing biomass to create a GHG credit is not attributable to a
product following this standard methodology. However in some
cases, such as a carbon stock change from till to no-till crop rotation)
or use of degraded lands, a company may see a net positive land-use
change impact (e.g., more removal than emissions).
3 This refers only to biomass burning, liming, and other practices
used to prepare converted land.  Biomass burning and fertilizer 
application due to agricultural and forestry practices are also
included in the inventory as attributable processes, separate from
land-use change impacts.  
4 IPCC, 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories, vol.4, Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use,
eds. H.S. Eggleston, L. Buendia, K. Miwa, T. Ngara and K. Tanabe
(Hayama, Japan: IGES,2006).
5 IPCC, 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories, vol.4, Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use,
eds. H.S. Eggleston, L. Buendia, K. Miwa, T. Ngara and K. Tanabe
(Hayama, Japan: IGES,2006).
6 The 2006 IPCC guidelines give values for forest land above and
below a certain density of biomass. If the removal of biomass does
not cause a change in carbon stock value, then land-use change
impacts may be calculated as zero.