File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 68 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This chapter provides guidance on the process of setting
and reporting on a corporate GHG target. Although the chapter focuses on emissions, many of the consid-erations equally apply to GHG sequestration (see Appendix B). It is not the purpose of this chapter toprescribe what a company’s target should be, rather thefocus is on the steps involved, the choices to be made,and the implications of those choices.
Why Set a GHG Target?
Any robust business strategy requires setting targets forrevenues, sales, and other core business indicators, aswell as tracking performance against those targets.Likewise, effective GHG management involves setting a GHG target. As companies develop strategies to reducethe GHG emissions of their products and operations,
corporate-wide GHG targets are often key elements ofthese efforts, even if some parts of the company are or will be subject to mandatory GHG limits. Commondrivers for setting a GHG target include:

MINIMIZING AND MANAGING GHG RISKS
While developing a GHG inventory is an important
step towards identifying GHG risks and opportunities,a GHG target is a planning tool that can actually driveGHG reductions. A GHG target will help raise internalawareness about the risks and opportunities presentedby climate change and ensure the issue is on the busi-ness agenda. This can serve to minimize and moreeffectively manage the business risks associated withclimate change.

ACHIEVING COST SAVINGS
AND STIMULATING INNOVATION
Implementing a GHG target can result in cost savings
by driving improvements in process innovation andresource efficiency. Targets that apply to products candrive R&D, which in turn creates products and serv-ices that can increase market share and reduceemissions associated with the use of products.

PREPARING FOR FUTURE REGULATIONS
Internal accountability and incentive mechanisms that
are established to support a target’s implementationcan also equip companies to respond more effectivelyto future GHG regulations. For example, some compa-nies have found that experimenting with internal GHGtrading programs has allowed them to better under-stand the possible impacts of future trading programson the company. CHAPTER 11 Setting a GHG Target 75GUIDANCE
➡FIGURE 12. Steps in setting a GHG target➡➡ ➡ ➡ ➡➡ · ➡1. Obtain senior management commitment
2. Decide on the target type
Set an absolute or intensity target?
3. Decide on the target boundary
Which GHGs to include?
Which direct and indirect emissions?
Which geographical operations?
Treat business types separately?
4. Choose the target base year
Use a fixed or rolling approach?
Use a single or multi-year approach?
5. Define the target completion date
Set a long- or short-term target?
6. Define the length of the target commitment period
Set a one-year or multi-year commitment period?
7. Decide on the use of offsets or credits
8. Establish a target double counting policy
How to deal with double counting of reductions across companies?
How does GHG trading affect target performance?
9. Decide on the target level
What is business-as-usual? How far to go beyond that?
How do all the above steps influence the decision?
10. Track and report progress
Make regular performance checks
Report information in relation to the target

--- Page 78 of 116 ---