File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 51 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[65]
CHAPTER 09 Allocation
guidance9.3 Guidance
9.3.1 Choosing an appropriate allocation method
This standard provides six valid methods for avoiding
allocation or for allocating emissions from a common
process, each suited to different scenarios.
Figure 9.2 presents a decision process for selecting the
best method for avoiding or performing allocation for a
given common process in various situations. As shown in
figure 9.2, if the output is a waste no allocation is needed.
In this case, all emissions are allocated to the studied-
product, and the waste treatment is also included as an
attributable process. This is because waste without value
is not subsequently used. In the situation where waste
is subsequently used, that output would have some
economic value and is no longer classified as “waste.”
9.3.2 Avoiding allocation
Process subdivision
Process subdivision is used to avoid allocation when it is
possible to divide the common process into two or more
distinct processes. Process subdivision may be done
through sub-metering specific process lines and/or using
engineering models to model the process inputs and
outputs.  The common process is disaggregated into  
sub-processes that separately produce the studied
product and co-products. The common process needs
to be sub-divided only to the point at which the studied
product and its function is isolated, not to the point that
every co-product has a unique and distinct process.
Process subdivision should be considered first and is
often used together with other methods to avoid or
perform allocation, particularly when a single material
input is transformed into more than one product. In this
case, process subdivision is not possible for all common
processes because there is a physical, chemical, or
biological separation of the material input. However,
process subdivision may only be useful in a limited capacity
for less technical common processes if transparent data
are not available for all process steps.
EXAMPLE  
A petroleum refinery produces many outputs including, but
not limited to, gasoline, diesel fuel, heavy oil, petrol, coke,
and bitumen. If the studied product is diesel fuel, then only a part of the refinery’s total emissions should be allocated to
the diesel product. Therefore, the refinery process should be
subdivided as much as possible into processes that include
only diesel fuel.
However, because diesel fuel comes from one material
input (crude oil) which is chemically separated into many
different products, process subdivision cannot be used for
all allocations. After considering process subdivision and
simplifying the common processes as much as possible, a
company should allocate or avoid allocation of the remaining
common processes using one of the other recommended
allocation methods.
Redefining the unit of analysis
Another method to avoid allocation is to redefine the unit
of analysis to include the functions of both the studied
product and the co-product. For guidance on defining the
unit of analysis, see chapter 6.
EXAMPLE  
A company produces a PET bottle designed to contain
beverages. The company defines the functional unit (unit of
analysis) and inventory boundary to include only the processes
attributable to producing, using, and disposing of the bottle.
The production, use, and disposal processes of the beverage
are excluded. However, many processes within the inventory
boundary affect both the bottle and the beverage. To avoid
allocation the company decides to redefine the functional unit
to include the function of the beverage (to be consumed by
customers). The functional unit is now defined as one bottle
containing one liter of beverage consumed.
System expansion
The system expansion method estimates the emissions and
removals contribution of the co-products to the common
process by substituting the emissions and removals of a
similar or equivalent product or the same product produced
by a different product system.3
Some life cycle assessment practitioners consider system
expansion as a consequential approach to allocation. (See
chapter  5 for more information on consequential and 
attributional approaches to life cycle assessment.) This is
true if marginal data or market trends are used to identify
the substituted co-product. To ensure the attributional
approach is used when performing system expansion, the

--- Page 68 of 148 ---