File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 23 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[31]
guidance
CHAPTER 06 Establishing the Scope of a Product Inventory
In some cases, a company produces one product in
multiple varieties (e.g., different flavors or colors). When
the variation does not have an impact on GHG inventory
results (chapter 11), companies may define the functional
unit broadly enough so that the GHG inventory report
is applicable to all product variations. If the functional
unit and subsequent inventory results are applicable to
several product variations, this should be noted in the
inventory report.
6.3.3			Defining	the	unit	of	analysis	for	
intermediate products
Intermediate products are used as inputs into final
products, and the company performing the GHG
inventory on an intermediate product may or may not
know the function of the final product. For example, a
steel bar has many uses and therefore the specific end
use may be unknown to a steel producing company. On
the other hand, a producer of a specialized intermediate
product that is manufactured for a specific use will likely
know the function of the final product. When the function
of the final product is known, companies should define
the unit of analysis as a functional unit.
For intermediate products where the function of the final
product is unknown, the unit of analysis is the reference
flow. A general rule of thumb when defining a reference
flow without a functional unit is to use a value that provides meaningful GHG inventory results. This could
be a single product or the amount or weight of a typical
shipment of product (for example, a box of 50 units or
a slab of 100 kilograms) depending on the size of the
product and the relative GHG emissions and removals
associated with its acquisition and production.
6.3.4	 Defining	the	unit	of	analysis	for	services
Defining the unit of analysis for a service should follow the
same general procedure outlined in this chapter. As with
a good, the magnitude, duration, and quality parameters
may be based on sector or product rules, industry average
data, or a company-specific reference flow. For example, a
home insurance company may define their functional unit
as the provision of premium home insurance coverage for
one year. The magnitude and quality of the insurance is
specific to the definition of “premium.”
Endnotes
1 The product inventory scope is different from the concept of
scopes as used in the Corporate and Scope 3 Standards .
2 A full list of long-lived GHGs is available in table 2.14 of the IPCC
Fourth Assessment Report, 2007.
3  Whether the studied product is produced, distributed, or sold 
by the reporting company depends on the company’s position in
the product’s life cycle. For example, a manufacturing company
screens products they produce, while a retail company screens
products they buy and sell. More guidance is available in chapter 7.

--- Page 34 of 148 ---

07Boundary Setting

--- Page 35 of 148 ---

guidance[33]
guidance7.1 Introduction
The next step in the inventory process is to define the boundary. The boundary identifies
which emissions and removals are included in the GHG inventory. During boundary
setting, companies should complete the following steps:
•Identify the attributable processes along the life cycle that are directly connected to
the studied product and its ability to perform its function
•Group the attributable processes into life cycle stages
•Identify the service, material, and energy flows needed for each attributable process
•Illustrate the product’s life cycle processes through a process map
The following sections include requirements and guidance to help companies define the boundary of the inventory.
7.2 Requirements
The boundary of the product GHG inventory
shall include all attributable processes.
An inventory consists of service, material, and energy
flows that become the product, make the product, and
carry the product through its life cycle. These are defined
as attributable processes. Examples include the studied
product’s components and packaging, processes that
create the product, materials used to improve its quality