File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 31 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

43
 season. Also, the length of crop years and pr oduction seasons will vary  between regions, 
potentially compromising the comparability of data from different facilities owned by the
reporting company.   
Multi-year base periods are recommended   
Oftentimes, individual years wi ll not serve as representative  base periods (see Table 6.1 
for examples). In such cases, companie s should average GHG flux data from multiple,
consecutive years to form a more representati ve base period. In general, this Guidance
recommends at least a three-year base pe riod, which is often sufficient to smooth over
inter-annual variability. If a base year has already been se t for non-agricultural emissions,
then a multi-year base period can be centered on that year.   Many calculation methodologies (e.g., Tier 1 IPCC methodologies; see Chapter 7.3) do 
not capture the effects of climate or envi ronmental change on GHG fluxes. Instead, they
only pick up changes in activ ity data (e.g., number of hectares farmed, number of cattle
raised, amount of fertilizer used, etc.). As a result, if management practices in an
individual year are representativ e, it may be appropriate to se lect that year as the base
period.   Table 6-1.  Examples of when an individual year may not serve as a representative base 
period  
Why is the selected base period
atypical? Examples
Changes in environmental conditions
occur that are beyond the control of the
company and that cause the base period inventory to depart significantly from typical GHG flux profiles  During a single growing season, a heat wave 
increases irrigation and therefore fuel use
requirements  
Atypical or episodic changes in farming practices  Coppiced woodland is returned to crop production 
Forest is cleared for agricultural production  
Agricultural activities vary cyclically over a set period of years, such that activities (and corresponding GHG fluxes) in one year differ from those in other years
within the same cycle A multi-year multiple crop rotation  
Coppicing of short-rotation woody crops (e.g., a row
of willows that is harvested every three years)
Rotational applications of lime

Rolling base periods may be useful   
Rolling base periods  are base periods that move fo rward in time with each reporting 
period. They are useful because long-term environmental trends, such as changes in precipitation and temperature that accompa ny climate change, can affect agricultural
GHG fluxes. As a result, the more widely sepa rated the current repor ting period is from a
fixed base period, the more like ly it is that at least some of the difference in GHG fluxes
between the two periods is due to these trends. Therefore, companies may use a rolling
base period  to help minimize the influence of th ese long-term trends and ensure that 
inventories are more useful as a basis for tracking the impacts of management practices.

--- Page 44 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

44
Using a rolling base period involves moving th e base period forward with each reporting
period (Figure 6-1).    One disadvantage to rolling base periods is th at they do not allow reduction targets to be 
expressed as a percentage reduction relative to a fixed point in the past, which is the most
common form of expressing reduction targets.   Figure 6-1.  The concept of rolling base periods 

6.2    Recalculating base period inventories.