File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 77 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[97]CHAPTER 12 Assurance
12.3 Guidance
12.3.1	 Benefits	of	assurance
Assuring product inventory results can provide a variety
of benefits, including:
•Increased confidence in the reported information on
which to base reduction targets and related decisions
•Enhanced internal accounting and reporting practices
(e.g., data collection, calculation, and internal
reporting systems), and facilitation of learning and
knowledge transfer within the company
•Increased confidence in the results by other companies
in the product’s life cycle that may use the results in
their own inventories
•Improved efficiency in subsequent inventory update
processes and when undertaking inventories of other
company products
•Greater stakeholder trust in the reported information
12.3.2 Key concepts in assurance
In the assurance field many different terms are used to
describe various assurance processes (e.g., verification,
validation, quality assurance, quality control, audit, etc.).
Though not comprehensive, table 12.3 includes many key
terms and concepts used in the assurance process.
12.3.3 Materiality
A material misstatement occurs when individual
or aggregate known errors, omissions and
misrepresentations have a significant impact on the GHG
inventory results and could influence a user’s decisions.
Materiality has both quantitative and qualitative aspects.
The assurer and reporting company should determine
an appropriate threshold or benchmark of materiality
during the assurance process.
Quantitative materiality is typically calculated as a
percentage of the inventory (in total or on an individual
line item basis). In determining the quantitative
materiality benchmark, assurers should contemplate
the risk of a potential misstatement and the history of
previous misstatements. A materiality threshold (e.g., a
point at which a discrepancy becomes material) can be
pre-defined by the assurer.  Qualitative misstatements tend to be those that have 
immaterial quantitative effects but could materially affect
the reporting company’s emissions in the future as well  
as those that mislead the intended user.
Uncertainty is a separate concept from materiality
because it is not a known error, rather an indicator
of how well the data represents the processes in the
product inventory.
12.3.4 Preparing for assurance
Preparing for assurance is a matter of ensuring that the
evidence that the assurer needs is easily accessible. The
type of evidence and documentation requested by the
assurer will depend on the subject matter, the industry,
and the type of assurance being sought. Maintaining
documentation of the inventory process through the use
of a data management plan (see Appendix C) is helpful for
ensuring the assurance evidence is available.
Prior to starting the assurance process, the reporting
company should ensure that the following are prepared
and available to the assurer:
•The company’s written assertion (e.g., inventory
results);
•The completed data management plan; and
•Access to sufficient and appropriate evidence (i.e.,
invoices, bills of sale, etc.).
Timing of verification
Verification is conducted before the public release of
the inventory report by the reporting company. This
allows for material misstatements to be corrected
prior to the release of the opinion (or revised opinion)
and assertion. The work should be initiated far enough
in advance of the inventory report release so that it is
useful in improving the inventory when applicable. The
period of the verification process is dependent on the
nature and complexity of the subject matter and the
level of assurance.
guidance

--- Page 100 of 148 ---