File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 65 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[81]
CHAPTER 10 Assessing Uncertainty
guidancefactors. Measurement errors, inaccurate approximation,
and how the data was modeled to fit the conditions of the
process all influence parameter uncertainty.
For example, two data points of similar measurement
precision may result in very different levels of uncertainty
depending on how the data points represent the process’s
specific context (i.e., in temporal, technological, and
geographical representativeness, and completeness terms).EXAMPLE
An emission factor for the production of the plastic used
in a toner cartridge is 4.5 kg of CO2 per kg of plastic resin
produced. The emission factor data might be based on a
limited sampling of producers of such resin and may source
from an older timeframe or different geography than that
in which the resin in question is being produced. Therefore,
there is parameter uncertainty in the emission factor value
being used.
Propagated parameter uncertainty
Propagation of parameter uncertainty is the combined
effect of each parameter’s uncertainty on the uncertainty
of the total computed result. Methods are available
to propagate parameter uncertainty from single data
points. Two prominent methods applied to propagation
of parameter uncertainty include random sampling (such
as the Monte Carlo method) and analytical formulas (such
as the Taylor Series expansion method). These methods
are described in the quantitative uncertainty guidance
available at ( www.ghgprotocol.org ).
EXAMPLE
Company A inventoried their printer cartridge product
and determined that the total inventory results equaled
155 kg CO2e per functional unit of printing of 50,000
pages. The activity data, emission factor data and GWPs
applied in this calculation each have a level of individual
parameter uncertainty. Using the Monte Carlo method, the
propagated parameter uncertainty assessment shows that
there is a 95 percent confidence that the true value of the
product inventory is between 140 and 170 kg CO2e. This
can also be presented as the inventory total is 155 kg CO2e
(+/-15 kg CO2e)2 per functional unit.
Scenario uncertainty
While parameter uncertainty is a measure of how close
the data used to calculate the inventory results are to
the true (though unknown) actual data and emissions,
scenario uncertainty refers to variation in results due to
methodological choices. The uses of standards reduce
scenario uncertainty by constraining choices the user may
make in their methodology. For example, the attributional
approach and boundary setting requirements standardize
the inventory approach for all products. However, when
there are multiple methodological choices available in the The uncertainty of the direct global warming
potential (GWP) for CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, and PFCs
is estimated to be ± 35 percent for the 90 percent
confidence interval (5 percent to 95 percent of
the distribution). This is based on information
provided in the IPCC’s Fourth Assessment Report,
and the range given is to reflect the uncertainty
in converting individual GHG emissions into units
of CO2e. As identified in the requirements section
10.2, companies are required to report the source
of GWP values used. If companies choose to
quantify inventory uncertainty they may include the
uncertainty of GWP values in their calculations. Box [10.1]   Uncertainty of global warming  
potential factorsTable [10.1]  Types of uncertainties and 
corresponding sources
Types of uncertainty Sources
Parameter  uncertainty • Direct emissions data
• Activity data
• Emission factor data
• Global warming  
potential (GWP)  
factors
Scenario uncertainty • Methodological  
choices
Model uncertainty • Model limitations

--- Page 84 of 148 ---