File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 01:56:27
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 400 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 268 of 270
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

World Resources Institute (WRI)
The World Resources Institute is a global environmental
think tank that goes beyond research to put ideas into
action. We work with governments, companies, and
civil society to build solutions to urgent environmental
challenges. WRI’s transformative ideas protect the earth
and promote development because sustainability is
essential to meeting human needs and fulfilling human
aspirations in the future.
WRI spurs progress by providing practical strategies
for change and effective tools to implement them.
We measure our success in the form of new policies,
products, and practices that shift the ways governments
work, companies operate, and people act.
We operate globally because today’s problems know
no boundaries. We are avid communicators because
people everywhere are inspired by ideas, empowered by
knowledge, and moved to change by greater understanding.
We provide innovative paths to a sustainable planet through
work that is accurate, fair, and independent.
WRI organizes its work around four key goals:
 •People & Ecosystems:  Reverse rapid degradation 
of ecosystems and assure their capacity to provide
humans with needed goods and services.
 •Governance:  Empower people and strengthen 
institutions to foster environmentally sound and
socially equitable decision-making.
 •Climate Protection:  Protect the global climate system 
from further harm due to emissions of greenhouse
gases and help humanity and the natural world adapt
to unavoidable climate change.
 •Markets & Enterprise:  Harness markets and 
enterprise to expand economic opportunity and
protect the environment.
In all its policy research and work with institutions,
WRI tries to build bridges between ideas and action,
meshing the insights of scientific research, economic and
institutional analyses, and practical experience with the
need for open and participatory decision-making.World	Business	Council	  
for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
The WBCSD is a CEO-led, global coalition of some  
200 companies advocating for progress on sustainable
development. Its mission is to be a catalyst for
innovation and sustainable growth in a world where
resources are increasingly limited. The Council provides
a platform for companies to share experiences
and best practices on sustainable development
issues and advocate for their implementation,
working with governments, non-governmental and