File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 94 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[120]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
frames, while others may be extracted from natural
forests that take over 100 years to grow. Some forests
are removed with the intent of producing annual crops,
while others are removed for the stock of wood that
can be extracted at the time of removal.  Depending 
on the type of product or wood being studied and the
location where that wood is cultivated, vastly different
harvesting techniques occur which have a significant
effect on the amount and distribution of land-use change
impacts.  Furthermore, co-product allocation (as defined 
in chapter 9) may be needed during land-use change if
the converted land also produces biogenic co-products.
If the studied product is a crop but the land-use change
event created a co-product of wood, a company needs
to accurately allocate these emissions. The following
scenarios provide some insight into the correct
distribution and allocation10 of land-use impacts due to
forest and wood products.
Scenario A: A forest is harvested for wood  
but the land is not converted into another category  
or the future use of the land is unknown.
In this scenario, any stock change that is calculated based on
the density change of the forest is attributable to the products
created from the harvested wood.  No distribution is needed 
because additional growth is not planned, or is unknown.
Scenario	B:	A	forest	is	harvested	for	wood	then 	
converted into another managed land category.
In this scenario, land-use change impacts should be distributed
to all products produced by the land within the amortization period.  Consider an example in which a stock change of  
150 tons of carbon is calculated with an initial harvest of  
100 tons of wood and an annual harvest of 1 ton of crop for
the remaining 19 years of the amortization period. This means
that 150 tons of carbon are distributed among 119 tons  
of products. The additional impacts of land-use change (e.g.,
liming applications) may also need to be distributed. This
scenario is only applicable when the converted land is managed
and the production of that land is known. In this context,
managed refers to land that is continuously maintained for the
purpose of cultivating and harvesting a product. Distribution
is not applicable for forest land that has been harvested and
replanted but is not maintained, or for a plot that is replanted
and managed but with an extensive harvest period (greater
than 50 years). In both cases the uncertainty associated with
the eventual production of the replanted product makes it
most accurate to apply all land-use change impacts to the first
harvest of wood.
Scenario C: A forest is converted to another land category
and the wood is not harvested into a co-product.
In this scenario, a company may not allocate any land-use
change impacts to the wood as it was not used to create
a co-product. All land-use change impacts (including the
burning of the wood not recovered) must be distributed to
the product produced on the converted land.  If a company 
does not have data that justifies the use of scenario B (i.e.,
proof that the wood was harvested and used for a product)
then scenario C is used. Figure [B.2]  Distributing GHG impacts over a 20 year time period
time20 year constant
0.0100
time20 year decline
0.0100C allocation (%)
timesingle year
0.0100
Source:    Zaks, D.P.M., C. C. Barford, N. Ramankutty and J. A. Foley, “Producer and consumer responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions from 
agricultural production –a perspective from the Brazilian Amazon.”Environmental Research Letters. 4 (2009).Option AGHG Distribution (%)Option B Option C

--- Page 123 of 148 ---