File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 19 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[25]
CHAPTER 05 Fundamentals of Product Life Cycle GHG Accounting
guidanceadditional specifications that can be useful to companies
as they prepare their inventories. Table 5.1 provides some
examples of additional specifications for key inventory
steps. For definitions and explanations of terms included in
the table please see the respective chapters.
Companies using sector guidance and product rules
still need to abide by the requirements of the Product
Standard . For example, companies may use a product
rule to help choose an allocation method as long as the
method is in conformance with chapter 9 and performed
using the attributional approach (e.g., primary supplier or
average data). Companies may not use sector guidance
or product rules to exclude attributable processes
without justification. Any sector guidance or product rules
used during the inventory process are disclosed in the
inventory report following the reporting requirements
(chapter 13).
Product rules and sector guidance should be developed
through an inclusive multi-stakeholder process to ensure
broad acceptance and facilitate increased consistency and
credibility. Guidance and tools in conformance with the
Product Standard  can be found at ( www.ghgprotocol.org ). Endnotes
1   International Organization for Standardization, ISO 14044:2006, 
Life Cycle Assessment: Requirements and Guidelines. Geneva.
2   British Standards Institution et al. PAS 2050:2008: Specification 
for the assessment of life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of
goods and services.
3 European Commission - Joint Research Centre - Institute for
Environment and Sustainability, International Reference Life
Cycle Data System (ILCD) Handbook - General guide for Life Cycle
Assessment  - Detailed guidance.  First edition, March 2010. 
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2010.
4 In the Product Standard, a completed GHG assessment is called
a GHG inventory to be consistent with corporate-level GHG
accounting. The GHG inventory includes both the collection of
data and the calculation of the global warming impact. This is
different from the ISO LCA terminology which defines inventory
as only the collection of data.
5 Adapted from UNEP and SETAC, Global Guidance Principles for Life
Cycle Assessment Databases . 2011.
6 Adapted from UNEP and SETAC,  Global Guidance Principles for Life 
Cycle Assessment Databases.  2011.

--- Page 28 of 148 ---

Establishing the Scope of a Product Inventory06

--- Page 29 of 148 ---

[27]
guidancerequirementsEstablishing the Scope  
of a Product Inventory
6.1 Introduction
A well-defined scope1, aligned with the five accounting principles and the company’s
business goals, can help ensure the final inventory meets the company’s and
stakeholder’s needs. In addition to identifying which GHGs to account for,
establishing the inventory scope involves choosing a product, defining the unit of analysis, and
identifying the reference flow. Specific requirements and guidance are detailed in this chapter.
6.2 Requirements
Companies shall account for carbon
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous
oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride
(SF6), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) emissions
to, and removals from, the atmosphere.
Additional GHGs included in the inventory
shall be listed in the inventory report.
Companies shall account for these six gases in their
product GHG inventory if they are emitted during
the product’s life cycle. Companies should account
for any other GHGs whose 100-year GWP values have
been identified by the IPCC if they are emitted during
the product’s life cycle.2 Any additional GHGs that are
accounted for shall be listed in the inventory report to
improve transparency.Removals from the atmosphere typically occur when CO2
is absorbed by biogenic sources (i.e. plants) and converted
to energy during photosynthesis. However, removals
may also occur when a product absorbs atmospheric CO2
during use, or when CO2 from the atmosphere is used
during a processing step.  Companies shall also account 
for all removals of CO2 from the atmosphere if they are
removed during the product’s life cycle.
Companies	shall	define	the	studied	product, 	
unit of analysis, and reference flow.
The studied product is the product on which the GHG life
cycle inventory is performed.

--- Page 30 of 148 ---