File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 53 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Many types of performance metrics exist
Some examples of performance metrics are:  
Productivity and efficiency rati os: These express the value or achievement of a company
divided by its GHG impact. Increasing effici ency ratios therefore reflect a positive
performance improvement. Examples of producti vity/efficiency ratios include resource
productivity ratios (e.g., sales per GHG) and process eco-efficiency ratios (e.g.,
production volume per amount of GHG).  Intensity ratios: Intensity (or ‘normalized ’) ratios express GHG impact per unit of 
physical activity or unit of economic output. A physical intensity ratio is suitable when
aggregating or comparing across businesses that have similar products. In turn, an
economic intensity ratio is suitable when a ggregating or comparing across businesses that
produce different products. A declining intens ity ratio reflects a positive performance
improvement. Examples of intensity ratio s include product inte nsity (e.g., tonnes of
emissions per unit of sold livestock or crops generated) and sales intensity (e.g.,
emissions per sales).  When calculating intensity ratios companies may have to allocate  
GHG fluxes amongst different product streams (see below).   Percentages: A percentage indicator is a ra tio between two similar variables (with the 
same physical unit in the numerator and the de nominator). Examples of percentages that
can be meaningful in performance reports include current GHG fluxes expressed as a
percentage of base  year GHG fluxes. 
In selecting a performance metric, companies should consider which metrics best capture
the benefits and impacts of their business (e .g., its operations, its produ cts, and its effects
on the marketplace), as well as  its intended application. 

--- Page 78 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

78

The use of multiple performa nce metrics is recommended  
Companies might find it useful to track perfor mance using more than one metric. This is
because individual metrics might exclude certai n sources, such as those associated with
by-products or co-products (see below) or those not directly  connected to the production 
system. For the same reason, performance me trics should always be reported alongside
data on the absolute GHG fluxes to/from a farm. The following scenarios show the
importance of using additional ratio indica tors (in addition to reporting absolute GHG
flux data) to track performan ce at the whole farm level:
 Production intensification (e.g., an increased  use of fertilizers and/or feed) might 
boost yields and result in a ne t reduction in GHG intensity per 	unit of agricultural 
output (provided the inputs are not excessive ), but could also increase emissions on a
per hectare basis.   
 Increasing the feed conversion efficiency of  cattle can reduce emissions per product, 
but can lead to greater overall emissions (a nd emissions per ha) if any spare feed is
diverted to new livestock. 	
Table I-1 describes various trade-offs asso ciated with different  types of metrics 
commonly used in the agricultural sector. 	

Contextual information should be provided
Importantly, the inherent divers ity of agricultural practices, as well as the influence of
environmental factors on GHG fluxes, will aff ect the comparability of metrics, both
within and across businesses. For example:
 Intensity ratios will often be higher for self-replacing livestock herds than non-
replacement herds. This is because self -replacing herds contain younger stock that
emit enteric CH 4 and produce N 2O from urine depositions for a longer period of time
before contributing to farm products.  
 Adverse weather conditions can lower re alized crop yields, causing inter-annual
variation in intensity ratios , independent of any changes in farming practices. (Note:
in such cases, companies may find it usef ul to normalize and report emissions by
expected yield, in addition to actual yield).  
Without adequate context on the farming system, environmental effects, and the
emissions sources that have been studie d, performance metrics are not useful for
assessing performance. Such context should be provided in reports to aid the reliable
interpretation of performance metrics.    

--- Page 79 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance