File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 27 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[37]CHAPTER 07 Boundary Setting
requirementsIf the function of the final product for which the
intermediate product is an input is not known, a
cradle-to-gate boundary is defined. Cradle-to-gate is a
partial life cycle inventory, including all emissions and
removals from material acquisition through to when the
intermediate product leaves the reporting company’s
gate (typically immediately following its production) and
excluding final product use and end-of-life. If a cradle-to-
gate boundary is defined, companies shall disclose this
in the inventory report.
Companies shall report the time period  
of the inventory.
The time period of the inventory is the amount of time
a studied product takes to complete its life cycle, from
when materials are extracted from nature until they are
returned to nature at the end-of-life (e.g., incinerated)
or leave the studied product’s life cycle (e.g., recycled).
Non-durable goods, like perishable foods or fuels, typically
have a time period of one year or less. Durable goods,
such as computers, cars, and refrigerators, will typically
have a time period of three years or more.
Companies shall report the time period of the total
inventory. The time period should be based on scientific
evidence to the extent possible, and sector guidance or
product rules may be a source of this information when
available. If known science, sector guidance, or product
rules do not exist, companies should assume a minimum
time period of 100 years including the end-of-life stage
(i.e., the time period cannot exclude end-of-life if the use
stage is more than 100 years).
Companies shall report the method used  
to calculate land-use change impacts,  
when applicable.
For studied products whose life cycle includes biogenic
materials, land use is reflected in two aspects of the
inventory. One is through emissions and removals from attributable processes associated with agricultural and
forestry practices such as growth, fertilizer application,
cultivation, and harvesting. For example, rice cultivation
produces CH4 emissions that would be included as a material
acquisition impact in the inventory of a rice product.
The second contributory aspect of land use is land-use
change. Land-use change impacts may be attributable
to the studied product’s material acquisition and
preprocessing stage, including:
•Biogenic CO2 emissions and removals due to carbon
stock change occurring as a results of land conversion
within or between land use categories
•Biogenic and non-biogenic CO2, N2O, and CH4 emissions
resulting from the preparation of converted land, such
as biomass burning or liming1
Guidance on determining when land-use change
impacts are attributable to the studied product is given
in Appendix B. The appendix also includes methods to
calculate land-use change impacts for two situations:
when the specific land from which the product or product
component originates is known and when it is not
known. When land-use change impacts are attributable,
companies shall include these in the boundary and
disclose the calculation method in the inventory report.
Indirect land-use change2 is defined as land-use change
that occurs when the demand for a specific land use (e.g.,
an increased demand for crops as a bioenergy feedstock
in the United States) induces a carbon stock change on
other land (e.g., increased need for cropland in Brazil
causing deforestation). This displacement is a result
of market factors and calculated using data consistent
with a consequential approach. Therefore, the inclusion
of indirect land-use change is not a requirement of this
standard. (See chapter 5 for more information on the
consequential versus attributional approach to life cycle
GHG inventories.) However, if indirect land-use impacts
can be calculated and are determined to be significant for
a given product, the magnitude of the impacts should be
reported separately from the inventory results.

--- Page 40 of 148 ---