File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 61 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ness and operations by normalizing figures ( e . g . , byassessing the impact of different sized businesses onthe same scale ) . It is important to recognize that the inherent diversity of businesses and the circumstances of individualcompanies can result in misleading indicators . Apparently minor differences in process , product , orlocation can be significant in terms of environmentaleffect . Therefore , it is necessary to know the businesscontext in order to be able to design and interpretratio indicators correctly . CHAPTER 9 Reporting GHG Emissions 65GUIDANCEB - - - Page 68 of 116 - - -

Companies may develop ratios that make most sense for their business and are relevant to their decision-making needs. They may select ratios for externalreporting that improve the understanding and clarifythe interpretation of their performance for theirstakeholders. It is important to provide some perspec-tive on issues such as scale and limitations ofindicators in a way that users understand the natureof the information provided. Companies shouldconsider what ratio indicators best capture the bene-fits and impacts of their business, i.e., its operations,its products, and its effects on the marketplace and onthe entire economy. Some examples of different ratioindicators are provided here.PRODUCTIVITY/EFFICIENCY RATIOS. Productivity/efficiency ratios express the value orachievement of a business divided by its GHG impact.Increasing efficiency ratios reflect a positive perform-ance improvement. Examples of productivity/efficiencyratios include resource productivity (e.g., sales perGHG) and process eco-efficiency (e.g., productionvolume per amount of GHG).GUIDANCEReporting GHG Emissions CHAPTER 9 66MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company, an energy companybased in Iowa, wanted a method to track a power plant’s GHGintensity, while also being able to roll individual plant results into a corporate “generation portfolio” GHG intensity indicator.MidAmerican also wanted to be able to take into account the GHGbenefits from planned renewable generation, as well as measurethe impacts of other changes to its generation portfolio over time(e.g., unit retirements or new construction). The company adopteda GHG intensity indicator that specifically measures pounds ofdirect emissions over total megawatt hours generated (lbs/MWh). To measure its direct emissions, the company leverages data currently gathered to satisfy existing regulatory requirementsand, where gaps might exist, uses fuel calculations. For coal-fired units, that means mainly using continuous emissionsmonitoring (CEM) data and the U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency’s emission factors for natural gas- and fuel oil-firedunits. Using the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard , the company completes an annual emission inventory for each of its fossil-fired plants, gathering together a) fuel volume and heat inputdata, b) megawatt production data, c) CEMs data, and d) fuelcalculations using appropriate emission factors. For example, in 2001, using CEM data and fuel calculations, the company’s Iowa utility business emitted roughly 23 million tonnesof CO 2, while generating approximately 21 million megawatt hours. Its 2001 GHG intensity indicator calculates to approximately2,177 lbs/MWh of CO 2, reflecting the Iowa utility company’s reliance on traditional coal-fired generation. By 2008, the Iowa utility company will have constructed a new 790 MW coal-fueled plant, a 540 MW combined-cycle natural gasplant, and a 310 MW wind-turbine farm and added them to itsgeneration portfolio. The utility company’s overall CO 2emissions will increase, but so will its megawatt production. The combinedemissions from the new coal- and gas-fired plants will be addedto the GHG intensity indicator’s numerator, while the megawattproduction data from all three facilities will be added to the indi-cator’s denominator. More importantly, and the ratio indicatorillustrates this, over time MidAmerican’s GHG intensity willdecline as more efficient generation is brought online and olderpower plants are used less or retired altogether.MidAmerican: Setting ratio indicators for a utility company 

--- Page 69 of 116 ---