File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 75 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[95]CHAPTER 12 Assurance
requirementsCompetencies of assurers
Selecting a competent assurer (also known as an assurance
provider) is important for the assurance findings to have
the credibility needed to support the reporting company’s
business goals and stakeholder needs.
A competent GHG inventory assurer has:
•Assurance expertise and experience using assurance
frameworks
•Knowledge and experience in life cycle assessment
and/or GHG corporate accounting, as well as familiarity
with key steps in the product inventory process
 •Knowledge of the company’s activities and  
industry sector
•Ability to assess the emission sources and the
magnitude of potential errors, omissions and
misrepresentations
•Credibility, independence and professional skepticism
to challenge data and information
Assurance process
Achieving assurance over the product inventory results
can be achieved through two methods: verification and
critical review.
Verification is an independent assessment of the
reliability of the product GHG inventory.2 Verification
engagements, whether performed by a first or third
party, have common elements, including:
1.  Planning and scoping (e.g., determine risks and 
material misstatements)
2. Identifying emission sources
3.  Performing the assurance process (e.g., gathering 
evidence, performing analytics, etc.)
4. Evaluating results
5. Determining and reporting conclusions
The nature and extent of verification procedures can vary
depending on whether the verification engagement is
designed to obtain reasonable or limited assurance (as
described below). Verification of inventory data may take
place in several ways, for example by on-site checking,
reviewing calculations, mass balance calculations, or cross-
checks with other sources.The critical review process is intended to ensure
consistency between the product inventory and the
principles and requirements of the Product Standard .3  It 
is an established practice in life cycle assessment. The
critical review process ensures that:
•Methods used to carry out the product inventory are
consistent with the Product Standard
•Methods used to carry out the product inventory are
scientifically and technically valid
 •Data used are appropriate and reasonable for  
public reporting
•The inventory report and any conclusions based on the
results are appropriate for GHG-only inventories
•The inventory report is transparent and consistent4
There are two types of critical review: those performed  
by an internal or external expert, and those performed by
a review panel of interested parties.
For critical reviews conducted by a review panel, the
panel should be comprised of at least three members.
The members may come from life cycle assessment
expert groups, government agencies, non-governmental
organizations, industry groups, and other companies.
Levels of assurance
In verification, the level of assurance refers to the
degree of confidence that stakeholders can have over
the information in the inventory report. There are two
levels of assurance: limited and reasonable. The level
of assurance requested by the reporting company will
determine the rigor of the verification process and
the amount of evidence required. The highest level of
assurance that can be provided is a reasonable level of
assurance. Absolute assurance is never provided as 100
percent of the inputs to the GHG Inventory are not tested
due to practicality and feasibility limitations.
The thoroughness with which the assurance evidence is
obtained is less rigorous in limited assurance. Table 12.2
provides examples of limited and reasonable assurance
opinions for an assertion of product inventory emissions.

--- Page 98 of 148 ---