File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 53 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[67]
CHAPTER 09 Allocation
guidancereporting company should know the exact use of the co-
product and collect quality supplier-specific and/or average
emission factor data to perform system expansion.
When disclosing and justifying which allocation methods
were used, companies that use system expansion should
explain how the selected substitute (and its associated
emissions) a reasonable replacement for the co-product.
Companies that are unsure whether system expansion
is appropriate for their situation should explore other
methods for avoiding or performing allocation.
EXAMPLE
One situation where system expansion may be particularly
useful is in allocating incineration emissions between multiple inputs (including the studied product) and an
energy co-product. For example, at a pulp mill, wood is
converted into pulp and black liquor. Black liquor can be
combusted for internal power generation and/or sold as
excess power to the grid. To account for the electricity co-
product from black liquor, system expansion should be used
to identify the emissions associated with the electricity
generated using the black liquor (based on average grid
values at the mill location). Therefore, if the mill created
1000 kg of GHG emissions and 5 MW of electricity, and  
the grid data shows that 5 MW of average electricity on  
the grid is equivalent to 50 kg of GHG emissions, then the
mill emissions allocated to the pulp product would be  
950 kg (i.e., 1000 kg from the mill - 50 kg from the created
Levi Strauss & Co. (LS&Co.) used process subdivision
and physical allocation methods for different allocation
challenges within the life cycle of a pair of Levi’s® Jeans.
Production
LS&Co. collected primary data directly from the two
suppliers of the studied product, a Levi’s® Jean. The
two suppliers were a fabric mill that creates the denim
fabric from cotton fiber and a garment manufacturer
responsible for cutting, sewing, and finishing the denim
fabric into the final jeans.
Physical allocation
For the fabric mill, LS&Co. allocated the GHG emissions
from fabric production using a mass allocation factor
because mass is one of the main determinants of material
and energy inputs during the milling process. The fabric
mill provided aggregated data on material use, energy
use, production outputs, and waste streams for their full
production over the year. The fabric mill only produces
denim fabric, so LS&Co. was able to estimate emissions
per product by dividing the total facility emissions by
the facility output. Emissions per product were then
applied to the total LS&Co. fabric order from the mill to
determine the total emissions attributable to LS&Co. Process subdivision
For the garment manufacturer, LS&Co. created a process
model to estimate the studied product’s emissions. Each
step in the garment manufacturing process was modeled
according to the capital equipment used for that step.
For example, sewing of the back pocket was modeled by
the amount of machine minutes it takes to fully complete
that assembly step.
Distribution-physical allocation
After production, the jeans are sent to a distribution
center that packages and ships various products. LS&Co.
allocated emissions from the energy and material used
by the total number of products shipped during a year.
This method assumes that all units shipped result in the
same emissions, which LS&Co. considers to be reasonable
since all products go through the same processes at the
distribution center.
Retail- physical allocation
Each retail store sells a variety of products, which
requires allocating total store emissions to each product
type. LS&Co. allocated emissions according to the retail
floor space occupied by each product compared to the
entire store. They did this by determining the average
floor space and emissions of a retail store along with the
floor area (physical space) occupied by each product to
estimate retail emissions per individual unit. Levi Strauss & Company

--- Page 70 of 148 ---