File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 72 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As required in chapter 9, the virgin material displacement
factor is reported separately from the inventory results
by life cycle stage to avoid a negative percent impact in
the end-of-life stage. The percentage impact of the virgin
material displacement can be reported next to the end-
of-life stage results as shown in the reporting template
(available at www.ghgprotocol.org ). The virgin material
displacement factor is included as part of the total
inventory results.
5.   Separate reporting of biogenic and  
non-biogenic emissions and removals and
land-use change impacts, when applicable
Separate reporting of the total inventory result
components provides transparency to the reporting
company and their stakeholders.
Biogenic emissions include CO2, CH4, and N2O that
are produced as a result of the combustion and/or
degradation of biogenic materials, wastewater treatment,
and a variety of biological sources in soil and water. For
example, if paper degrades in a landfill, the CO2 and CH4
emitted would be classified as biogenic emissions. Non-
biogenic emissions include all GHG emissions from non-
biogenic (e.g., fossil-based) materials. Biogenic removals
are due to the uptake of CO2 by biogenic materials during
photosynthesis, while non-biogenic removals only occur
if CO2 is removed from the atmosphere by a non-biogenic
product during its production or use stage. Appendix B  
provides guidance on calculating land-use change impacts.If companies are unsure whether emissions are from a
biogenic or non-biogenic source, they should include
those emissions as non-biogenic. In some cases, a product
may have no biogenic emissions, biogenic and non-
biogenic removals, or land-use change impacts. If only
non-biogenic emissions occur in the inventory, companies
may report only the total inventory results and note this
in the inventory report.
6.    Calculate cradle-to-gate and gate-to-gate 
inventory results separately
In addition to reporting separately the inventory result
components, reporting inventory results by cradle-to-gate
and gate-to-gate gives some insight into what emissions
and removals occur under the control of the reporting
company. However, it is recognized that reporting gate-
to-gate inventory results may jeopardize the reporting
company’s confidentiality. If this is the case, companies
may state this as a limitation to reporting these results
separately. For cradle-to-gate inventories, the total
inventory results are the cradle-to-gate results and
therefore do not need to be repeated here.
11.3.2	 Offsets	and	avoided	emissions
As previously stated, offsets are emission credits (in the
form of emission trading or funding of emission-reduction
projects) that a company purchases to offset the impact
of the studied product’s emissions. Companies typically
purchase offsets for one of two reasons: to meet a
reduction goal that they cannot reach with reductions
alone, or to claim a product as carbon neutral. Companies
are encouraged to set reduction targets and meet these
with absolute reductions. However if a company wishes to
purchase offsets for its product inventory, this standard
does allow for offsets to be reported separately from the
inventory results. For offsets to be reported separately in
a product inventory, the company should:
•Purchase offsets based on the GHG Protocol Project
Protocol or similar internationally accepted GHG
mitigation project accounting methodologies for
quantifying the GHG benefits of climate change
mitigation projects; and
•Clearly separate corporate-level and product-level
offset purchases to avoid double counting.
If a company purchases offsets to meet their corporate
reduction goals, double counting can occur if the same life cycle stage

--- Page 93 of 148 ---