File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 9 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 4 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

4
 A note on terminology in GH G Protocol publications  
The GHG Protocol uses specific terms to connote reporting requirements and
recommendations. The term “shall” is used in this Guidance to indicate what is required
for a GHG inventory to conform to the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard. The term “should” is used  to indicate a reco mmendation, but not a 
requirement. The term “may” is used to i ndicate an option that is permissible or
allowable. This publication contains requi rements and guidance from the Corporate
Standard, and additional, sect or-specific recommendations.  

Part	1:	GENERAL	INFORMATION 	

--- Page 5 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

5
 Chapter 1: Introduction  
Agriculture is a major contribu tor to global emissions of the greenhouse gases  (GHGs) 
that drive climate change. Leadership and innova tion from the sector is  therefore vital in 
making progress in reducing these emissions a nd in abating the worst effects of climate
change on agricultural production. Action in th is arena also makes good business sense.
By addressing GHG emissions , companies (and producers1) can identify opportunities to
bolster their bottom line, reduce risk, and discover competitive advantages.   A GHG emissions inventory is the foundational tool that al lows a company to understand 
its GHG emissions and build effective climat e change strategies. GHG inventories help
companies understand their exposure to GHG-re lated risks, identify emissions reduction
opportunities, create baseline data and reduc tion targets for tracking performance, and
communicate performance to key audiences, in cluding internal management and external
stakeholders. Realizing these benefits require s that inventories are prepared according to
industry-accepted best practices.  
This chapter:
 Introduces the family of GHG Protocol publi cations that define best practices for
developing GHG emissi ons inventories.
 Describes how and why the Agricultural  Guidance (‘Guidance’) was developed, 
and for whom.
 Describes what guidance is (and is no t) provided in this publication.
 Summarizes how the Guidance differs  from the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard, a nd relates to other GHG Protocol
publications.
1.1 Agriculture and climate change  
The international community has adopted a goal to restrict global warming to 2oC above
pre-industrial levels2. Temperature rise above 2oC will produce increasingly
unpredictable and dangerous impacts for peopl e and ecosystems, but particularly for
agricultural systems. Impacts on the agricultu ral sector that are already occurring but
expected to intensify include increased irriga tion water needs, increased spread of animal
and crop diseases and pests, reduced forage quality, and reduced cr op and pasture yields
(Easterling et al., 2007). These impacts stem  from changes in surface temperatures, the 
timing of seasons, and in the frequency and se verity of severe weather events, such as
droughts, floods, and heatwaves.   Achieving the 2
oC goal will require drastic reducti ons in GHG emissions. Here, again,
the agricultural sector is central. A wide range of ag ricultural activ ities emit GHGs

1 In this Guidance, the terms ‘producer’ and ‘company ’ are used synonymously to refer to any entity that
develops an inventory of the agricultural GHG emissions. The terms ‘farm’, ‘farmland’ and ‘agricultural
land’ are also used interchangeably to refer to  the land on which agriculture is practiced.   
2 See paragraph 1 of ‘Report of the Conference of the Parties on its fifteenth session, held in Copenhagen
from 7 to 19 December 2009’
(http://unfccc.int/documentation/documents/adva nced_search/items/6911.php?priref=600005735 )  

--- Page 6 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance