File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 41 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Approaches for rolling up
GHG emissions data to corporate level
There are two basic approaches for gathering data on GHG
emissions from a corporation’s facilities (Figure 10):
Centralized: individual facilities report activity/fuel
use data (such as quantity of fuel used) to the corpo-rate level, where GHG emissions are calculated.

Decentralized: individual facilities collect activity/fuel
use data, directly calculate their GHG emissionsusing approved methods, and report this data to thecorporate level.
The difference between these two approaches is in where
the emissions calculations occur (i.e., where activity datais multiplied by the appropriate emission factors) and inwhat type of quality management procedures must be putin place at each level of the corporation. Facility-levelstaff is generally responsible for initial data collectionunder both approaches.
Under both approaches, staff at corporate and lower
levels of consolidation should take care to identify andexclude any scope 2 or 3 emissions that are alsoaccounted for as scope 1 emissions by other facilities,business units, or companies included in the emissionsinventory consolidation.
CENTRALIZED APPROACH:
INDIVIDUAL FACILITIES REPORT ACTIVITY/FUEL USE DATA
This approach may be particularly suitable for office-
based organizations. Requesting that facilities reporttheir activity/fuel use data may be the preferred option if:
The staff at the corporate or division level can calcu-
late emissions data in a straightforward manner onthe basis of activity/fuel use data; and
Emissions calculations are standard across a number
of facilities.DECENTRALIZED APPROACH:
INDIVIDUAL FACILITIES CALCULATE GHG EMISSIONS DATA
Asking facilities to calculate GHG emissions themselves
will help to increase their awareness and understandingof the issue. However, it may also lead to resistance,increased training needs, an increase in calculationerrors, and a greater need for auditing of calculations.Requesting that facilities calculate GHG emissionsthemselves may be the preferred option if:
GHG emission calculations require detailed knowledge
of the kind of equipment being used at facilities;
GHG emission calculation methods vary across a
number of facilities;
Process emissions (in contrast to emissions from
burning fossil fuels) make up an important share oftotal GHG emissions;
Resources are available to train facility staff to
conduct these calculations and to audit them;
A user-friendly tool is available to simplify the calcu-
lation and reporting task for facility-level staff; or
Local regulations require reporting of GHG emissions
at a facility level.
The choice of collection approach depends on the needs
and characteristics of the reporting company. Forexample, United Technologies Corporation uses thecentralized approach, leaving the choice of emissionfactors and calculations to corporate staff, while BP usesthe decentralized approach and follows up with audits toensure calculations are correct, documented, and followapproved methods. To maximize accuracy and minimizereporting burdens, some companies use a combination ofthe two approaches. Complex facilities with processemissions calculate their emissions at the facility level,while facilities with uniform emissions from standardsources only report fuel use, electricity consumption, andtravel activity. The corporate database or reporting toolthen calculates total GHG emissions for each of thesestandard activities.
The two approaches are not mutually exclusive and
should produce the same result. Thus companiesdesiring a consistency check on facility-level calcula-tions can follow both approaches and compare theresults. Even when facilities calculate their own GHGemissions, corporate staff may still wish to gatheractivity/fuel use data to double-check calculations andexplore opportunities for emissions reductions. TheseGUIDANCE
CHAPTER 6 46Identifying and Calculating GHG Emissions
Activity data
Activity data x
emission factor
=
GHG emissionsSites report GHG emissionsSites report activity data
(GHG emissions calculated at
corporate level: activity data x
emissions factor =GHG emissions)DECENTRALIZED    CENTRALIZED➡
➡SITE LEVEL CORPORATE LEVELFIGURE 10. Approaches to gathering data

--- Page 49 of 116 ---