File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 21 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

n operational boundary defines the scope of direct
and indirect emissions for operations that fall withina company’s established organizational boundary.
The operational boundary (scope 1, scope 2, scope 3) isdecided at the corporate level after setting the organiza-tional boundary. The selected operational boundary is thenuniformly applied to identify and categorize direct andindirect emissions at each operational level (see Box 2).The established organizational and operational bound-aries together constitute a company’s inventory boundary.Accounting and reporting on scopes
Companies account for and report emissions from scope 1 and 2 separately. Companies may furthersubdivide emissions data within scopes where this aidstransparency or facilitates comparability over time. For example, they may subdivide data by businessunit/facility, country, source type (stationary combustion,process, fugitive, etc.), and activity type (production of electricity, consumption of electricity, generation orpurchased electricity that is sold to end users, etc.).
In addition to the six Kyoto gases, companies may also
provide emissions data for other GHGs (e.g., MontrealProtocol gases) to give context to changes in emissionlevels of Kyoto Protocol gases. Switching from a CFCto HFC, for example, will increase emissions of KyotoProtocol gases. Information on emissions of GHGs otherthan the six Kyoto gases may be reported separatelyfrom the scopes in a GHG public report.
Together the three scopes provide a comprehensive
accounting framework for managing and reducingdirect and indirect emissions. Figure 3 provides anoverview of the relationship between the scopes and the activities that generate direct and indirect emissionsalong a company’s value chain.
A company can benefit from efficiency gains throughout
the value chain. Even without any policy drivers,accounting for GHG emissions along the value chain mayreveal potential for greater efficiency and lower costs(e.g., the use of fly ash as a clinker substitute in themanufacture of cement that reduces downstream emis-sions from processing of waste fly ash, and upstream
26Setting Operational Boundaries
CHAPTER 4GUIDANCEBOX 2. Organizational and operational boundaries
Organization X is a parent company that has full ownership andfinancial control of operations A and B, but only a 30% non-operated interest and no financial control in operation C.
Setting Organizational Boundary: X would decide whether to
account for GHG emissions by equity share or financial control. Ifthe choice is equity share, X would include A and B, as well as 30%of C’s emissions. If the approach chosen is financial control, Xwould count only A and B’s emissions as relevant and subject toconsolidation. Once this has been decided, the organizationalboundary has been defined.
Setting Operational Boundary: Once the organizational boundary
is set, X then needs to decide, on the basis of its business goals,whether to account only for scope 1 and scope 2, or whether toinclude relevant scope 3 categories for its operations.
Operations A, B and C (if the equity approach is selected) account
for the GHG emissions in the scopes chosen by X, i.e., they apply thecorporate policy in drawing up their operational boundaries.
FIGURE 3. Overview of scopes and emissions across a value chain
SCOPE 2
INDIRECTCO2 SF6 N2O CH4 PFCs HFCs
SCOPE 1
DIRECT
SCOPE 3
INDIRECT
PURCHASED ELECTRICITY
FOR OWN USE
COMPANY OWNED
VEHICLES
FUEL COMBUSTIONPRODUCT
USE
OUTSOURCED ACTIVITIESCONTRACTOR OWNED
VEHICLESWASTE DISPOSALEMPLOYEE BUSINESS TRAVEL
PRODUCTION OF
PURCHASED MATERIALSA
Adopted from NZBCSD, 2002

--- Page 29 of 116 ---