File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 32 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[42]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
 [42]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidanceabiding by the attributional approach of the standard as
well as the data collection requirement that specific data
be used whenever possible. This could be data collected
from customer surveys, when available, or data based on
industry average values for the average product use.
Attributable processes in both the use and end-of-
life stage can vary significantly between geographical
locations. While companies can use global averages, they
may find that focusing on a specific region or country
provides greater insight into the GHG impacts of the
product’s use and end-of-life stages. Data collection
requirements and guidance are available in chapter 8 to
help companies determine the most appropriate use and
waste treatment profile.
In the case where more than one use or end-of-life profile
is possible, companies may assess the scenario uncertainty
(i.e., sensitivity analysis) to understand the impact each
potential profile may have on the total inventory results.
For example, a company may want users of the report to
know the impact that storing food in the freezer for three
months versus one year has on the inventory results.
More information on scenario uncertainty is available in
chapter 10.
7.3.4	 Estimating	to	determine	insignificance
To determine insignificance, a company should estimate the
process’s emissions using data with upper limit assumptions
to determine whether, in the most conservative case, the
process is insignificant based on either mass, energy, or
volume, as well as GHG relevance criteria.
To determine whether an estimate is insignificant or not,
a company needs to establish a definition of insignificance
which may include a rule of thumb threshold. For example,
a rule of thumb for insignificance may be material or
energy flows that contribute less than one percent of the
mass, energy, or volume and estimated GHG significance
over a process, life cycle stage, or total inventory.4
For example, consider a process for which there is no
primary or secondary data available on material input
X other than that it contributes 0.5 grams to the 100
gram total material input for the product. The company
estimates that even if material X is a GHG intensive input,
0.5 grams does not exceed one percent of the mass or environmental impact; therefore, the material input is a
justified exclusion. The definition of insignificance should
reflect the company’s business goals for conducting the
inventory. As stated previously, companies are required
to disclose and justify any exclusion of attributable
processes in the inventory report.
7.3.5 Non-attributable processes
Companies are not required to include non-attributable
processes (processes that are not directly connected to
the studied product) in the boundary. However, companies
should include non-attributable processes in the inventory
if they cannot be separated from attributable process
data, or if the company determines that the process is
relevant to the studied product. Relevance is determined
by the company and may be based on many different
factors including business goals and reduction potentials,
product rules or sector guidance, and relative impact in
relation to the rest of the inventory.  TAL Apparel is a major 
apparel manufacturer with
multiple manufacturing
facilities in China and
Southeast Asia. While TAL
has installed sub-meters
for most attributable
processes for their non-iron shirt, there are still some
attributable processes, such as packing, whose energy
use cannot be fully separated from non-attributable
processes that also occur in the factory, such as R&D
and product testing. After deducting the emissions of
metered processes from the overall tally, TAL captured
emissions from the remaining processes (attributable
and non-attributable) that are not sub-metered by
allocating across all products produced in the factory.
As a result of using this approach, the product
inventory was able to meet the boundary requirement
to include all attributable processes. By clearly stating
which non-attributable processes were included in the
report, TAL also improved the transparency of their
inventory results. TAL

--- Page 45 of 148 ---