File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 72 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4. Choose the target base year
For a target to be credible, it has to be transparent how
target emissions are defined in relation to past emissions.Two general approaches are available: a fixed target baseyear or a rolling target base year.
USING A FIXED TARGET BASE YEAR. Most GHG
targets are defined as a percentage reduction in emis-sions below a fixed target base year (e.g., reduce CO
2
emissions 25 percent below 1994 levels by 2010).Chapter 5 describes how companies should track emis-sions in their inventory over time in reference to afixed base year. Although it is possible to use differentyears for the inventory base year and the target baseyear, to streamline the inventory and target reportingprocess, it usually makes sense to use the same yearfor both. As with the inventory base year, it is impor-tant to ensure that the emissions data for the targetbase year are reliable and verifiable. It is possible touse a multi-year average target base year. The sameconsiderations as described for multi-year average
base years in chapter 5 apply.
Chapter 5 provides standards on when and how to
recalculate base year emissions in order to ensurelike-with-like comparisons over time when structuralchanges (e.g., acquisitions/divestitures) or changes inmeasurement and calculation methodologies alter theemissions profile over time. In most cases, this willalso be an appropriate approach for recalculating datafor a fixed target base year.
USING A ROLLING TARGET BASE YEAR. Companies
may consider using a rolling target base year ifobtaining and maintaining reliable and verifiable datafor a fixed target base year is likely to be challenging(for example, due to frequent acquisitions). With arolling target base year, the base year rolls forward atregular time intervals, usually one year, so that emis-sions are always compared against the previous year.
4
However, emission reductions can still be collectivelyCHAPTER 11 Setting a GHG Target 79GUIDANCETABLE 5. Comparing targets with rolling and fixed base years
How might the target be stated?
What is the target base year?
How far back is like-with-like
comparison possible?
What is the basis for comparing
emissions between the targetbase year and completion year? (see also Figure 14)
How far back are
recalculations made?
How reliable are the target
base year emissions?
When are recalculations made?FIXED TARGET BASE YEAR
A target might take the form “we will
emit X% less in year B than in year A”
A fixed reference year in the past
The time series of absolute emissions
will compare like with like
The comparison over time is based on
what is owned/controlled by the companyin the target completion year.
Emissions are recalculated for all years
back to the fixed target base year
If a company with a target acquires a
company that did not have reliable GHGdata in the target base year; back-casting of emissions becomes necessary,reducing the reliability of the base year ROLLING TARGET BASE YEAR
A target might take the form of “over the next Xyears we will reduce emissions every year by Y%compared to the previous year”
5
The previous year
If there have been significant structural changes the
time series of absolute emissions will not comparelike with like over more than two years at a time
The comparison over time is based on what was
owned/controlled by the company in the years theinformation was reported
6
Emissions are recalculated only for the year prior to the structural change, or ex-post for the year of the structural change which then becomes thebase year.
Data from an acquired company’s GHG emissions
are only necessary for the year before the acquisi-tion (or even only from the acquisition onwards),reducing or eliminating the need for back-casting
The circumstances which trigger recalculations for structural changes etc. (see chapter 5) are
the same under both approaches

--- Page 82 of 116 ---