File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 7 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

boundary , and calcula - tion methodologies is essential to producing comparableGHG emissions data over time . The GHG information for all operations within an organization ’ s inventoryboundary needs to be compiled in a manner that ensuresthat the aggregate information is internally consistentand comparable over time . If there are changes in theinventory boundary , methods , data or any other factorsaffecting emission estimates , they need to be transpar - ently documented and justified . More information on consistency is provided in chapters 5 and 9 . T - - - Page 11 of 116 - - -

Transparency Transparency relates to the degree to which information on the processes, procedures, assumptions, and limita-tions of the GHG inventory are disclosed in a clear,factual, neutral, and understandable manner based onclear documentation and archives (i.e., an audit trail).Information needs to be recorded, compiled, andanalyzed in a way that enables internal reviewers andexternal verifiers to attest to its credibility. Specificexclusions or inclusions need to be clearly identified andjustified, assumptions disclosed, and appropriate refer-ences provided for the methodologies applied and thedata sources used. The information should be sufficientto enable a third party to derive the same results ifprovided with the same source data. A “transparent”report will provide a clear understanding of the issues inthe context of the reporting company and a meaningfulassessment of performance. An independent externalverification is a good way of ensuring transparency anddetermining that an appropriate audit trail has beenestablished and documentation provided. More information on transparency is provided in chap- ters 9 and 10. Accuracy Data should be sufficiently precise to enable intendedusers to make decisions with reasonable assurance thatthe reported information is credible. GHG measure-ments, estimates, or calculations should be systemicallyneither over nor under the actual emissions value, as faras can be judged, and that uncertainties are reduced asfar as practicable. The quantification process should beconducted in a manner that minimizes uncertainty.Reporting on measures taken to ensure accuracy in theaccounting of emissions can help promote credibilitywhile enhancing transparency. More information on accuracy is provided in chapter 7. As an international, values-driven retailer of skin, hair, body care, and make-up products, the Body Shop operates nearly 2,000 loca-tions, serving 51 countries in 29 languages. Achieving bothaccuracy and completeness in the GHG inventory process for sucha large, disaggregated organization, is a challenge. Unavailabledata and costly measurement processes present significantobstacles to improving emission data accuracy. For example, it isdifficult to disaggregate energy consumption information forshops located within shopping centers. Estimates for these shopsare often inaccurate, but excluding sources due to inaccuracycreates an incomplete inventory. The Body Shop, with help from the Business Leaders Initiative on Climate Change (BLICC) program, approached this problem witha two-tiered solution. First, stores were encouraged to activelypursue direct consumption data through disaggregated data ordirect monitoring. Second, if unable to obtain direct consumptiondata, stores were given standardized guidelines for estimatingemissions based on factors such as square footage, equipmenttype, and usage hours. This system replaced the prior fragmentaryapproach, provided greater accuracy, and provided a morecomplete account of emissions by including facilities that previ-ously were unable to calculate emissions. If such limitations inthe measurement processes are made transparent, users of theinformation will understand the basis of the data and the trade -off that has taken place. The Body Shop: Solving the trade-off between accuracy and completenessCHAPTER 1 GHG Accounting and Reporting Principles 9 Volkswagen is a global auto manufacturer and the largest automaker in Europe. While working on its GHG inventory,Volkswagen realized that the structure of its emission sources hadundergone considerable changes over the last seven years.Emissions from production processes, which were considered to beirrelevant at a corporate level in 1996, today constitute almost 20 percent of aggregated GHG emissions at the relevant plantsites. Examples of growing emissions sources are new sites forengine testing or the investment into magnesium die-castingequipment at certain production sites. This example shows thatemissions sources have to be regularly re-assessed to maintain acomplete inventory over time.Volkswagen: Maintaining completeness over timeGUIDANCE

--- Page 12 of 116 ---