File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 93 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Glossary
100Leakage (Secondary effect) Leakage occurs when a project changes the availability or quantity of a product or service that results
in changes in GHG emissions elsewhere. (Chapter 8)
Life Cycle Analysis Assessment of the sum of a product’s effects (e.g. GHG emissions) at each step in its life cycle,
including resource extraction, production, use and waste disposal. (Chapter 4)
Material discrepancy An error (for example from an oversight, omission, or miscalculation) that results in the reported
quantity being significantly different to the true value to an extent that will influence performance ordecisions. Also known as material misstatement.(Chapter 10)
Materiality threshold A concept employed in the process of verification. It is often used to determine whether an error or
omission is a material discrepancy or not. It should not be viewed as a de minimus for defining acomplete inventory. (Chapter 10)
Mobile combustion Burning of fuels by transportation devices such as cars, trucks, trains, airplanes, ships etc. (Chapter 6)
Model uncertainty GHG quantification uncertainty associated with mathematical equations used to characterize the
relationship between various parameters and emission processes. (Chapter 7)
Non-Annex 1 countries Countries that have ratified or acceded to the UNFCC but are not listed under Annex 1 and are there-
fore not under any emission reduction obligation (see also Annex 1 countries).
Operation A generic term used to denote any kind of business, irrespective of its organizational, governance, or
legal structures. An operation can be a facility, subsidiary, affiliated company or other form of jointventure. (Chapter 3, 4)
Operating lease A lease which does not transfer the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee and is not recorded
as an asset in the balance sheet of the lessee. Leases other than Operating leases areCapital/Financial/Finance leases. Consult an accountant for further detail as definitions of leasetypes differ between various accepted financial standards. (Chapter 4)
Operational boundaries The boundaries that determine the direct and indirect emissions associated with operations owned or
controlled by the reporting company. This assessment allows a company to establish which operationsand sources cause direct and indirect emissions, and to decide which indirect emissions to includethat are a consequence of its operations. (Chapter 4)
Organic growth/decline Increases or decreases in GHG emissions as a result of changes in production output, product mix,
plant closures and the opening of new plants. (Chapter 5)
Organizational boundaries The boundaries that determine the operations owned or controlled by the reporting company,
depending on the consolidation approach taken (equity or control approach). (Chapter 3)
Outsourcing The contracting out of activities to other businesses. (Chapter 3, 4, 5)
Parameter uncertainty GHG quantification uncertainty associated with quantifying the parameters used as inputs to estima-
tion models. (Chapter 7)
Primary effects The specific GHG reducing elements or activities (reducing GHG emissions, carbon storage, or
enhancing GHG removals) that the project is intended to achieve. (Chapter 8)
Process emissions Emissions generated from manufacturing processes, such as the CO
2that is arises from the break-
down of calcium carbonate (CaCO3) during cement manufacture. (Chapter 4, Appendix D)
Productivity/efficiency ratios Ratios that express the value or achievement of a business divided by its GHG impact. Increasing effi-
ciency ratios reflect a positive performance improvement. e.g. resource productivity(sales per tonneGHG). Productivity/efficiency ratios are the inverse of intensity ratios. (Chapter 9)
Ratio indicator Indicators providing information on relative performance such as intensity ratios or productivity/effi-
ciency ratios. (Chapter 9)

--- Page 103 of 116 ---