File Name: 2_E1_2021-06-30_VO_2021_1119_EUKG_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:55
Original Size: 0.54 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 23 of 31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When imple menting the targe t refer red to in the first subparagraph, the relevant Union institutions and the Member States
shall prioritise swif t and predictable emission reductions and, at the same time, enhance removals by natural sinks.
In order to ensure that suffi cient mitig ation efforts are deplo yed up to 2030, for the purpose of this Regulation and without
prejudice to the review of Union legislation refer red to in paragraph 2, the contr ibution of net remo vals to the Union 2030
climat e target shall be limited to 225 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent. In order to enhance the Union’s carbon sink in line
with the objective of achi eving climate neutrality by 2050, the Union shall aim to achi eve a higher volume of its net carbon
sink in 2030.
2. By 30 June 2021 , the Commission shall review relevant Union legislation in order to enable the achievement of the
target set out in paragraph 1 of this Article and the climate-neutrality objective set out in Article 2(1) and consider taking
the necessar y measures, including the adoptio n of legislative proposals, in accordance with the Treaties.
Within the framew ork of the review refer red to in the first subparagraph and future reviews, the Commission shall assess in
particular the availability under Union law of adequat e instr uments and incentives to mobilise the investments needed, and
propose measures as necessar y.
From the adoption of the legislative proposals by the Commission, it shall monitor the legislative procedures for the
differ ent proposals and may repor t to the European Parliament and to the Council on whether the foreseen outcome of
those legislative procedures, considered together , would achieve the targe t set out in paragraph 1. If the foreseen outcome
would not deliver a result in line with the target set out in paragraph 1, the Commission may take the necessar y measures,
including the adopt ion of legislative proposals, in accordance with the Treaties.
3. With a view to achi eving the climat e-neutrality objective set out in Article 2(1) of this Regulation, a Union-wide
climat e target for 2040 shall be set. To that end, at the latest within six months of the first global stoc ktak e refer red to in
Article 14 of the Paris Agreement, the Commission shall make a legislative proposal, as appropr iate, based on a detailed
imp act assessment, to amend this Regulation to include the Union 2040 climate target, taking into account the
conclusions of the assessments referred to in Articles 6 and 7 of this Regulation and the outcomes of the global stocktak e.
4. When making its legislative proposal for the Union 2040 climat e target as refer red to in paragraph 3, the
Commission shall, at the same time, publish in a separate repor t the projected indicative Union greenhouse gas budge t for
the 2030-2050 period, defined as the indicative total volume of net greenhouse gas emissions (expressed as CO2
equivalent and provid ing separate information on emissions and remo vals) that are expected to be emitted in that period
without putting at risk the Union’s commitments under the Paris Agreement. The projected indicative Union greenhouse
gas budget shall be based on the best available science, take into account the advice of the Advisor y Board as well as,
where adop ted, the relevant Union legislation implemen ting the Union 2030 climate target. The Commission shall also
publish the methodology underlying the projected indicative Union greenhouse gas budget.
5. When proposing the Union 2040 climat e target in accordance with paragraph 3, the Commission shall consider the
follo wing:
(a) the best available and most recent scientifi c evidence, including the lates t repor ts of the IPCC and the Advisory Board;
(b) the social, economic and envi ronmental impacts, including the costs of inaction;
(c) the need to ensure a just and socially fair transition for all;
(d) cost-effe ctiveness and economic efficiency ;
(e) competiveness of the Union’s economy , in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and sectors most exposed to
carbon leakage;
(f) best available cost-effective, safe and scalable technologies;