File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 24 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

of organic matter by ma ss and develop under the poorly drained conditions of wetlands when inputs of organic matter exceed losses of C from anaerobic decomposition . The drainage of orga nic soils to prepare land for agriculture leads to CO 2 emissions - emission rates vary by climate , with drainage under warmer conditions leading to faster decomposition rates . CO 2 emissions are also influenced by drainage depth , limin g , and the fertility and consistenc y of the organic substrate . - - - Page 31 of 103 - - - GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

31
  Organic C pools in mineral soils. All soils that  are not organic soils are classified as 
mineral soils. They typically have relati vely low amounts of organic matter, occur
under moderate to well drained conditions, and predominate in most ecosystems, except wetlands. The organic C stocks of mi neral soils can change if the net balance
between C inputs and C losses from the soil is  altered. C inputs can occur through the 
incorporation of biomass resi dues into soils after harvesti ng and fires, or through the
direct additions of C in organic amendm ents.  C losses are largely controlled by 
decomposition and are influenced by changes in moisture and temperature, soil properties and soil disturbance.  

Figure 4-4.  Carbon pools in agriculture 

Mechanical sources  
The following categories of mechan ical sources exist on farms:
 Stationary and mobile combustion sour ces. Stationary combustion sources are
devices such as boilers, furnaces, and electric generators and are used to power a
wide range of equipment, such as m illing and irrigation equipment. Mobile
combustion sources are vehicles and mobile  equipment, such as tractors, combine 
harvesters, and trucks. The CO 2 emissions from all combustion sources are
primarily determined by the C content of the fuel used. In contrast, the CH 4 and

--- Page 32 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

32
N2O emissions are primarily determined by the combustion and emissions control
technologies present.
 Purchased electricity. The associated emissions will depend on the mix of fuel
types and technologies used  on the grid concerned.  
 Refrigerant and air-conditioning equipment. These equipment leak refrigerants –
high Global Warming Potential (GWP) GHGs  - during installation, maintenance, 
operation and disposal.  

4.3 Off-site emission sources beyond the farm gate
The relative importance of different upstream and downstream processes will vary, depending on the proximity to markets (i.e . transportation dist ance), the amount of
processing and packaging, and the type and volum e of farm inputs (esp ecially fertilizer).
The following sources will be important for many types of farms:   
Fertilizer production  
The GHG emissions from fertiliz er production are closely li nked to energy consumption
and vary with aspects of plant design and e fficiency, emissions c ontrol technologies, and
raw material inputs. Three raw mate rials are particularly important:
‐ Ammonia. CO
2 is emitted from the consumption of hydrocarbons (primarily
natural gas) as a hydrocarbon feedstock (t o supply H) and as an energy source.
‐ Nitric acid (HNO 3). Nitric acid production is th e largest industrial source of N 2O
(IPCC 2006) and is emitted as a byproduct of the catalytic oxidation of ammonia
to nitric acid.  
‐ Phosphoric acid. Produced from reacting phos phate rock with sulphuric acid. The
resultant emissions are mainly of CO 2, from fuel use and from the C compounds
contained in the rock.  
To a large degree, the GHGs embedded in a fertilizer product will reflect the relative
amounts of these ingredients.   
Feed production
Globally, feed production accounts for 45% of the product-level GHG emissions across
all types of livestock (Gerbe r et al., 2013). It is more important in the life cycle
inventories of egg, chicken and pork, compared to those of milk and beef, where enteric
fermentation dominates. Feed production em issions come from many of the sources
described in Chapter 4.2; particularly, soil management, LUC, and fertilizer production,
as well as electricity use dur ing drying and processing.