File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 59 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[73]
CHAPTER 09 Allocation
guidancewaste  
treatmentFigure [9.6] Example process map illustrating the recycled content method
Recycled content method
The recycled content method allocates the recycling
process emissions and removals to the life cycle that
uses the recycled material. The recycled content
method can be used in open loop situations10 that
include recycled material inputs and outputs. Figure
9.6 illustrates a simplified process map for a product
that uses the recycled content method11. The recycled
content method is also referred to as the cut–off
method or the 100-0 method.
The following describes the calculation of the material
acquisition and end-of-life stages using the recycled
content method as illustrated in figure 9.6.
Material acquisition and preprocessing stage:   
All attributable processes due to virgin and recycled
material acquisition and preprocessing. In figure 9.6 this
includes virgin material preprocessing, virgin material
acquisition, recycled material preprocessing, and material
recovery facility.
End-of-life:  All attributable processes due to end-of-life 
treatment of waste material output. In figure 9.6 this
includes collection and waste treatment.The recycled content method does not include
attributable processes due to recovered material output.
While a virgin material displacement factor is not included
in this method, figure 9.6 does illustrate two potential
benefits due to recycling in the studied product’s
inventory: the reduction in the amount of waste entering
waste treatment and the reduction of upstream virgin
material acquisition. Reducing the amount of waste
entering waste treatment reduces the GHG emissions
from waste treatment in the end-of-life stage. Reducing
upstream virgin material acquisition reduces the GHG
emissions and removals from material acquisition if the
recycling processes are less GHG intensive than virgin
extraction. If this is not the case (e.g., recycling processes
are more GHG intensive than virgin inputs), it is possible
that using virgin inputs would result in a lower total
product inventory than using recycled inputs. This  is 
an example of when focusing on one impact category
may drive companies to make product decisions that
are desirable for one impact (e.g., GHG emissions)
but unfavorable to another (e.g., material depletion).
Companies are encouraged to consider all applicable
environmental metrics before making reduction decisions,
as discussed in chapter 14.material acquisition  
& pre-processing         production       distribution  
      & storageuse end-of-life 
virgin  
material  
acquisitionvirgin  
material  
pre-  
processing
material
recovery
facility  
(MRF)recycled  
material  
pre-  
processingproduction
processdistribution  
processuse
processcollection  
processvirgin  
material
input
recycled  
material
inputwaste  
material
output
recovered
material
output
attributable processesmovement of material
through the lifecycle

--- Page 76 of 148 ---