File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 81 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[103]CHAPTER 13 Reporting
requirementsAssurance
The assurance statement including:
• Whether the assurance was performed
by	a	first	or	third	party; 	
• Level of assurance achieved (limited or
reasonable) and assurance opinion or the
critical review findings;
•A summary of the assurance process;
• The relevant competencies of the
assurance providers; and
 •  An explanation of how any potential 
conflicts	of	interest	were	avoided	for 	
first party assurance.
Setting reduction targets and tracking
inventory changes
Companies that report a reduction target
and/or track performance over time shall
report the following:
• The base inventory and current inventory
results in the updated inventory report;
• The reduction target, if established;
• Changes made to the inventory, if the
base inventory was recalculated;
• The threshold used to determine when
recalculation is needed;
• Appropriate context identifying and
describing	significant	changes	that 	
trigger base inventory recalculation;
• The change in inventory results as a
percentage change over time between
the two inventories on the unit of
analysis basis; and
 • An explanation of the steps taken  
to reduce emissions based on the
inventory results.

--- Page 106 of 148 ---

[104]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidance
13.3 Guidance
13.3.1 Goal of public reporting
The overarching goal of producing a GHG inventory in
conformance with the GHG Protocol Product Standard  is to 
create positive drivers to pursue GHG emission reductions
across the product life cycle. The full process from
developing the inventory to reporting results is designed to
help improve the understanding of reduction opportunities
as well as facilitate and leverage inputs from stakeholders
to prioritize and reduce emissions. Identifying target
audience and specific business goals is the first step and
reporting is the final step to achieving this goal.
The following sections provide guidance on
understanding the audience and completing some of
the reporting requirements not included elsewhere in
the standard1. A list of optional reporting elements is
 included, and a reporting template is provided at  
(www.ghgprotocol.org ) to help companies organize
their inventory report.
13.3.2 Identifying the audience
Keeping the audience in mind is important right from
the start as companies set objectives and develop an
inventory. A key opportunity to make a meaningful
connection with the audience is when a company
prepares their inventory report. Helping users understand
the purpose, context, and rationale behind various
accounting decisions as well as the limitations and
potential uses of the inventory results are examples of
objectives that a company should seek to address in the
inventory report.
Audience category/role Audience description
General public Lay person. No understanding or prior experience with LCA/GHG
inventories may be assumed.
GHG inventory / LCA practitioner Practitioner wishing to use the inventory results as data inputs to
another study.
Assurance provider Assurer performing assurance on the inventory.
Report partners Employees, suppliers, product-owning organization, report-
commissioning organization.
Sustainability / environmental
practitionerGeneral interested party seeking to understand more about a specific
product, a product sector, an industry sector, or other aspects of life
cycle emissions and removals.
Green purchasing Purchasing decision-maker seeking differentiation across products.
Downstream customers Retail decision-maker making purchase decisions that may use the
inventory results.
Environmental/carbon/  
GHG labeling organizationsGHG programs that may provide a platform to report, register, and
disseminate inventory results.
Policy makers and government  
program administrators Government stakeholders that may use the inventory results to plan
future programs and policies.Table [13.1] Potential audiences of a publicly disclosed product GHG inventory report

--- Page 107 of 148 ---