File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 44 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Recommended CO 2 fluxes
The following CO 2 fluxes should be include d in inventories:   
1. CO 2 emissions from, and atmospheric removals by, organic C stocks in mineral and
organic soils  
2. CO 2 emissions from, and atmospheric removals by, below-ground and above-ground
woody biomass (e.g., woody vegetation in or chards, vineyards and agroforestry
systems)
3. CO 2 emissions from the combustion of herbaceous biomass (e.g., open burning of
crop residues)
4. CO 2 emissions from DOM
These fluxes should be reported within a spec ial ‘Biogenic Carbon’ category that is
outside of the scopes. The one exception concerns the CO
2 emissions from soils and
woody biomass that result from LUC. These LUC CO 2 emissions should be reported
within the scopes because they effectively constitute permanent losses of C to the
atmosphere (see Chapter 9.1).  The CH
4 and N 2O emissions from all C stocks (e.g., from biomass or DOM combustion)
shall always be reporte d in the scopes.    

Additional CO 2 fluxes that may be reported  

1. Fluxes to/from inorga nic soil carbon stocks

10 This Guidance does not recommend a minimum soil depth for measuring soil C stocks.  

--- Page 62 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

62
In contrast to soil organic C stocks, inor ganic C stocks are slow to respond to
management changes and often will not exhibit significant changes. Moreover,
quantifying such changes requires a deta iled understanding of site hydrology and
mineralogy. For instance, it may require follo wing the fate of discharged dissolved
inorganic C and base cations (e.g., Ca and Mg ) from the managed land, at least until they
are fully captured in the oceanic inorganic C cycle. Such analyses are highly complicated.
For these reasons, companies can exclude the ne t fluxes to/from inorganic soil C stocks.   
However, certain management practices can be expected to significant ly affect inorganic
C stocks by changing soil chemistry and i nducing the breakdown of  carbonates, leading 
to CO
2 emissions. For instance, use of ammonium sulfate fertilizer to lower soil pH will
tend to promote CO 2 emissions from inorganic C. In such cases, companies should
consider quantifying the CO 2 emissions.  

2. Sequestration in organic soils.  
In wetland environments with organic soils, the rates of C sequestration are relatively
slow and can be assumed to be negligib le. They therefore can be excluded.   

CO 2 fluxes that should  not be reported 

1. Sequestration in harvested woody products (HWPs) and herbaceous vegetation
The C contained in HWPs should not be include d in any reported values for the amount
of sequestration in above-ground woody biomas s stocks. Depending on how these values
have been calculated, this may mean that the amount of C in HWPs will have to be
subtracted from estimates of the total amount  of sequestration. This subtraction is 
necessary to ensure that i nventories do not over-estimate the net GHG benefits of woody
crop production.  
The biomass associated with annual and pere nnial herbaceous vegetation is relatively
ephemeral - reductions in these biomass stoc ks from harvesting, the burning of the crop
residues, or the integration of crop residues into soils, ar e balanced by stock increases
from plant re-growth over a period of only one  to a few years. Consequently, companies 
should also not report any sequestrati on in herbaceous biomass stocks.  

2. CO
2 fluxes to/from livestock
The carbon incorporated into animal tissues or  lost through animal respiration should not 
be reported in an inventory.  
Special note: Accounting for natural disturbances, conservation
areas, and payments for environmental services  
Natural  disturbances  are varied and include fires, windstorms, landslides, droughts, and 
pest outbreaks. Conservation areas  are lands where agricultural production has been 
limited or halted so as to provide environm ental benefits, such as maintaining or

--- Page 63 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance