File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 38 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

the CH 4 emissions from enteric fermentation , emissions may be estimated by multiplying the number of dairy cattle by an emission factor that specifies how much CH 4 is emitted per head of dairy cattle . The accuracy of this approach depends not only on the accuracy of the activity data , but also on how specific the factor is to the specific co mbination of environmental factors and management activities concerned . Default emi ssion factors are largely either based on field measurements at individual research site s or represent average values across a range of sites .

Empirical and process-based models
Empirical models use field measurements to  develop statistical relationships between 
GHG fluxes and agricultural management factor s. In turn, process-based (or mechanistic)
models mathematically link important bi ogeochemical processes that control the
production, consumption, and emission of GHGs.  Some models may only require one or 
several inputs to estimate GHG fluxes; others  might have extensive data requirements 
that span different spatial and temporal scal es. Input data can be physical variables such
as temperature, precipitation, elevation, and so il nutrient levels, or biological variables
such as soil microbial activity and plant divers ity. The accuracy of models is variable and
depends on the robustness of the model and the accuracy of the inputs.  For instance, if a 
model is used in a new agro-climate regime for which it was not previously calibrated, the model may not be reliable.   GHG fluxes can also be calcula ted using any combination of  the above approaches. For 
instance, empirical or process models could be used to derive more specific emission
factors. The resulting hybrid approaches can  increase the accuracy and practicability of 
calculating emissions.  

No one approach is ideal
The calculation approaches differ in how they  map onto the various tiers defined by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) for the purposes of national inventory reporting (see Box 7- 1). In general, emission factors and empirical models
(IPCC Tiers 1 and 2) are the easiest and least resource-intensive approaches to use. But
they are not very effective in capturing the geographical variation in the biophysical
processes that underpin GHG fluxes and they may not be sensitive to many changes in
farm management practices. As a result, they  tend to become less accurate as spatial 
resolution increases from a regi onal or national level to a lo cal or farm-level. And their
use may mask much of the variation in performance that exists amongst farms.  
Emission factors and empirical models also tend to focus on individual emission sources
and management practices one at a time. This is a problem because non-mechanical sources are often connected by complex flow s of N and C through farms, such that
management activities have non-additi ve GHG effects. For example, soil N
2O emissions
are affected not only by fertil izer application regimes, but also by tillage, soil pH
management, irrigation, and drai nage practices. As a result, the GHG impact of different
agricultural practices is best evaluated si multaneously and at the whole farm-level.  

--- Page 54 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

54

In contrast to emission fact ors and empirical models, fiel d measurements (Tier 3) and
process models (IPCC Tiers 2 and 3) inte grate and link multiple sources, allowing a
whole farm analysis of GHG fluxes. They are therefore particularly suited to
understanding trade-offs in the emissions of  different GHGs (see Box 7-2). However, the 
use of field measurements and process models  can require expertise, data and time that 
will often not be available.   Companies may choose to use different a pproaches for different activities.