File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 32 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To ensure consistent tracking of GHG fluxes over time, the base period inventory shall be
recalculated when changes occur to the i nventory boundaries or i nventory development
process that would significantly impact the ba se inventory. These changes include:   
 Structural changes that transfer the owne rship or control of operations from one
company to another as long as those operati ons existed in the base period of the
reporting company. Examples: mergers, acq uisitions, and divestments (see Figure
6-2).  
 Changes in calculation methodologies. Ex ample: the use of improved emission
factors.
 The discovery of errors that are signifi cant on their own or collectively. Example:
the discovery of errors in activity data.
In determining whether changes are signi ficant, companies should set significance
thresholds (i.e., changes are cumulatively sign ificant if they cause a change that exceeds
x% of the base period inve ntory). The GHG Protocol does not define significance
thresholds, although many GHG reporting programs do provide recommended thresholds.  Once defined, a significance thre shold should be applied consistently over 
time. 012345
123456
012345
123456
Before rolling of base period
After rolling of base period
Amount of GHG flux
Base period Current reporting period

--- Page 45 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

45

Figure 6-2.  Recalculating base period inventorie s for structural changes. Here, the 
reporting company acquires a business at the beginning of year 3. The emissions from
that business during year 3 are reflected in  the reporting company’s inventory for that 
year, but the inventories for th e base period and year 2 are recalculated to include the
acquired business’s emissions during those two years.  

Changes that do not trigger recalculations
 Organic growth or decline. Organic growth  and decline is defined as increases or 
decreases in production output, changes in pr oduct mix, or closures and openings of
operating units that are owned or controll ed by the reporting company. For instance,
an egg producer would experience organic growth if it increased production, perhaps
by building a new facility, but it would not  experience organic growth if it bought 
out a pre-existing facility. Changes in th e amount of land leased by a company are
also considered organic change and do not tr igger recalculations, even if that action
substantially increase s production levels.  
 The acquisition (or insourcing) of an operation that did not exist in the base period of
the reporting company.
 Operational changes, such as switching from a feedlot to a rotational grazing
operation, assuming both operations are owned or controlled by the reporting
company.  

--- Page 46 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

46
Chapter 7: Calculating GHG Fluxes
Calculating GHG fluxes can be the most challe nging part of devel oping GHG inventories
in the agricultural sector. Companies should first identify the management practices and
emissions sources that would need to be refl ected in their inventories (see Chapter 4 and
Chapter 5), before selecting a calculation appr oach. This selection is a key step, because
the likely accuracy of GHG flux data and the ty pes of activity data needed vary widely
amongst approaches. Figure 7-1 shows the general process for calculating GHG fluxes.

Figure 7-1.  General process for ca lculating GHG flux data. 
                   This chapter: 
 Describes the types of activ ity data typically needed to calculate GHG fluxes.  
 Provides guidance on prioritizing emissi ons sources for data collection.
 Describes the general approaches fo r calculating the GHG fluxes to/from
agricultural, especially non-mechanical, sources.
 Describes criteria that are useful in selecting specific calculation tools.
 Describes common sources of uncertainty  in calculating GHG data that offer 
opportunities for improving inventory quality.

Calculation
approach
GHG flux data Activity data:
Data on farm production
(e.g., number of
livestock grown )
Data on environmental
factors (e.g., soil type,
climate, and weather)
Data on farm inputs
(e.g., amount of
fertilizer used )

--- Page 47 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance