File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 89 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Absolute target A target defined by reduction in absolute emissions over time e.g., reduces CO2emissions by 25%
below 1994 levels by 2010. (Chapter 11)
Additionality A criterion for assessing whether a project has resulted in GHG emission reductions or removals in
addition to what would have occurred in its absence. This is an important criterion when the goal ofthe project is to offset emissions elsewhere. (Chapter 8)
Allowance A commodity giving its holder the right to emit a certain quantity of GHG. (Chapter 11)
Annex 1 countries Defined in the International Climate Change Convention as those countries taking on emissions
reduction obligations: Australia; Austria; Belgium; Belarus; Bulgaria; Canada; Croatia; CzechRepublic; Denmark; Estonia; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; Hungary; Iceland; Ireland; Italy; Japan;Latvia; Liechtenstein; Lithuania; Luxembourg; Monaco; Netherlands; New Zealand; Norway; Poland;Portugal; Romania; Russian Federation; Slovakia; Slovenia; Spain; Sweden; Switzerland; Ukraine;United Kingdom; USA.
Associated/affiliated company The parent company has significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the
associated/affiliated company, but not financial control. (Chapter 3)
Audit Trail Well organized and transparent historical records documenting how an inventory was compiled.
Baseline A hypothetical scenario for what GHG emissions, removals or storage would have been in the absence
of the GHG project or project activity. (Chapter 8)
Base year A historic datum (a specific year or an average over multiple years) against which a company’s
emissions are tracked over time. (Chapter 5)
Base year emissions GHG emissions in the base year. (Chapter 5)
Base year emissions recalculation Recalculation of emissions in the base year to reflect a change in the structure of the company, or
to reflect a change in the accounting methodology used. This ensures data consistency over time, i.e.,comparisons of like with like over time. (Chapter 5, 11)
Biofuels Fuel made from plant material, e.g. wood, straw and ethanol from plant matter (Chapter 4, 9, Appendix B)
Boundaries GHG accounting and reporting boundaries can have several dimensions, i.e. organizational, opera-
tional, geographic, business unit, and target boundaries. The inventory boundary determines whichemissions are accounted and reported by the company. (Chapter 3, 4, 11)
Cap and trade system A system that sets an overall emissions limit, allocates emissions allowances to participants, and
allows them to trade allowances and emission credits with each other. (Chapter 2, 8, 11)
Capital Lease A lease which transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee and is
accounted for as an asset on the balance sheet of the lessee. Also known as a Financial or FinanceLease. Leases other than Capital/Financial/Finance leases are Operating leases. Consult anaccountant for further detail as definitions of lease types differ between various accepted financialstandards. (Chapter 4)
Carbon sequestration The uptake of CO
2and storage of carbon in biological sinks.
Clean Development Mechanism A mechanism established by Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol for project-based emission reduction
(CDM) activities in developing countries. The CDM is designed to meet two main objectives: to address the
sustainability needs of the host country and to increase the opportunities available to Annex 1 Partiesto meet their GHG reduction commitments. The CDM allows for the creation, acquisition and transferof CERs from climate change mitigation projects undertaken in non-Annex 1 countries.Glossary
96

--- Page 99 of 116 ---