File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 102 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 128 of 148 ---

[126]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
A data management plan documents the product inventory process and the
internal quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC) procedures in place
to enable the preparation of the inventory from its inception through to final
reporting. It is a valuable tool to manage data and track progress of a product inventory
over time, and can also be useful as an assurance readiness measure since it contains
much of the data needed to perform assurance.        
This appendix provides guidance to help companies
create and maintain an effective data management plan.
Companies may already have similar procedures in place
for other data collection efforts, such as meeting ISO
standards or corporate GHG accounting requirements.
Where possible, these processes should be aligned to
reduce data management burdens.
C.1   Overview of the data  
management plan
The quality control portion of the data management
plan outlines a system of routine technical activities
to determine and control the quality of the product
inventory data and the data management processes.
The purpose is to ensure that the product inventory
does not contain incorrect statements by identifying
and reducing errors and omissions; providing routine
checks to maximize consistency in the accounting
process; and facilitating internal and external inventory
review and assurance.
The quality assurance portion of the data management
plan involves peer review and audits to assess the quality
of the inventory. Table C.2 includes recommended quality
assurance and control procedures. Peer review involves
reviewing the documentation of the product accounting
methodology and results, but typically does not rigorously
review the data used or the references. This review aims
to reduce or eliminate any inherent error or bias in the
process used to develop the inventory and assess the
effectiveness of the internal quality control procedures. The review evaluates whether the inventory complies
with the quality control specifications outlined in the data
management plan. Peer reviews and audits should be
conducted by someone not involved in the development
of the product inventory to reduce bias. Establishing data
management plans is helpful in the product inventory
assurance process and they should be made available to
assurance providers (whether internal or external).
At a minimum the data management plans should contain
the following items:
•Description of the studied product, unit of analysis,
and reference flow
•Information on the entity(ies) or person(s) responsible
for measurement and data collection procedures
•All information that describes the product’s inventory
boundary
•Criteria used to determine when a product inventory is
re-evaluated
•Data collection procedures
•Data sources, including activity data, emission factors
and other data,  and the results of any data quality 
assessment performed
•Calculation methodologies, including unit conversions
and data aggregation
•Length of time the data should be archived
•Data transmission, storage, and backup procedures
•All QA/QC procedures for data collection, input and
handling activities, data documentation, and emissions
calculationsAppendix C.  Data Management Plan

--- Page 129 of 148 ---