File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 38 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[48]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standardrequirements
The standard defines five data quality indicators to use
in assessing data quality. They are:
 •Technological representativeness:  the degree to 
which the data reflect the actual technology(ies)
used in the process
 •Geographical representativeness:  the degree to 
which the data reflects actual geographic location of
the processes within the inventory boundary (e.g.,
country or site)
 •Temporal representativeness:  the degree to which 
the data reflect the actual time (e.g., year) or age of
the process
 •Completeness:  the degree to which the data are 
statistically representative of the process sites
 •Reliability:  the degree to which the sources, data 
collection methods, and verification procedures used
to obtain the data are dependable
Assessing data quality during data collection allows
companies to make data quality improvements more
efficiently than when data quality is assessed after the
collection is complete.
For	significant	processes,	companies	shall 	
report a descriptive statement on the data
sources,	the	data	quality,	and	any	efforts 	
taken to improve data quality.
Companies need to determine which processes
are significant in order to report the data sources,
quality concerns, and quality improvement efforts.
For example, a process that contributes a substantial
amount of GHG emissions relative to the total life
cycle emissions is significant. The criteria included in
the screening steps below can be helpful to identify
significant processes. See the guidance section for
examples of reporting on data sources, quality, and
improvement efforts for significant processes.A company owns or controls a process if it is under
its operational or financial control.  The GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard
defines two types of control: financial control and
operational control.
A company has financial control over a process if it
has the ability to direct the financial and operating
policies of the process with a view to gain economic
benefits from the activity. For example, financial
control usually exists if the company has the right to
the majority of benefits of the operation. Similarly,
a company is considered to financially control a
process if it retains the majority of the risks and
rewards of ownership of the operation’s assets.
A company has operational control over a process
if the company or one of its subsidiaries has the full
authority to introduce and implement its operating
policies to the process. This criterion is consistent
with the current accounting and reporting practice
of many companies that report on emissions
from facilities for which they hold the operating
license. If the company or one of its subsidiaries is
the operator of a facility, it is expected that it has
the full authority to introduce and implement its
operating policies and thus has operational control,
except in very rare circumstances.
For more information on ownership and control
refer to chapter 3 of the GHG Protocol Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard.Box [8.1] Definition of ownership or control

--- Page 51 of 148 ---