File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 79 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[99]CHAPTER 12 Assurance
Timing of the critical review process
Critical review may be performed during the inventory
process (known as an interactive review) or at the end  
(a posteriori). An interactive critical review may be useful
in correcting any problems with the inventory before
the inventory’s completion, and it can reduce delays
in publishing the inventory report. A posteriori review
allows the panel members to have a fresh perspective
when reviewing the inventory results. It is important
that the critical review expert(s) remains objective and
independent from the inventory development process
during interactive reviews, and that the critical review
findings are based on the final product inventory report.
12.3.5 Assurance challenges
There are several challenges in assuring product
inventories. Emissions calculations rely on a mixture of
data sources and assumptions. Inventory uncertainty,
especially scenario uncertainty related to use and end-
of-life stage emissions, may affect the quality of the
inventory. It is important to consider the state of data
collection systems and the integrity of the data and
methodological choices for assurance.
One of the primary challenges is that the majority of
emission sources are usually outside the reporting
company’s control and the assurer’s ability to obtain
sufficient appropriate evidence.
Three approaches to addressing this diminished  
control are:
1.  Change the level of assurance i.e., reasonable to 
limited (for verification)
2. Change from verification to critical review
3.  Rely on the assurance statement of another assurer 
for emission and removal sources outside of the
company’s control (i.e., assurance over a supplier’s
emission sources by a different assurance firm)12.3.6 Assurance statement
The assurance statement conveys the assurer’s
conclusion about the inventory results, and it may take
different forms depending on whether the company is
conducting critical review or verification, as well as if the
assurance was performed by a first or third party. The
required contents of an assurance statement are listed
in the requirements section. An assurance statement
should also include the following:
Introduction
•A description of the studied product
•A reference to the reporting company’s assertion
included in the inventory report
•Description of assurance process
•List of the assurance criteria
 •Description of the reporting company’s and  
assurer’s responsibilities
•The assurance standard or type of critical review
process used to perform the assurance
•A summary of the work performed
•The materiality threshold or benchmark, if set
Conclusion
•Any additional details regarding the assurer’s
conclusion, including details regarding any exceptions
noted or issues encountered in performing the
assurance
•When there are material departures in the assertion
from the assurance criteria, the reporting company
should report the effect of the departures
Endnotes
1  Adapted from ISO 14064:3:2006, Greenhouse gases - Part 3: 
Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of
greenhouse gas assertions.
2  Adapted from the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.
3  Adapted from ISO 14040:2006, Environmental Management –Life 
Cycle Assessment –Principles and framework.
4  Adapted from ISO 14044:2006, 6.1
guidance

--- Page 102 of 148 ---

Reporting 13

--- Page 103 of 148 ---