File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:16
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 150 of 225
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DEMONSTRATING LEADERSHIP
AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
With the emergence of GHG regulations in many parts
of the world, as well as growing concern about theeffects of climate change, a commitment such assetting a public corporate GHG target demonstratesleadership and corporate responsibility. This canimprove a company’s standing with customers,employees, investors, business partners, and the public,and enhance brand reputation.

PARTICIPATING IN VOLUNTARY PROGRAMS
A growing number of voluntary GHG programs are
emerging to encourage and assist companies insetting, implementing, and tracking progress towardGHG targets. Participation in voluntary programscan result in public recognition, may facilitate recog-nition of early action by future regulations, andenhance a company’s  GHG accounting and reportingcapacity and understanding.
Steps in Setting a Target
Setting a GHG target involves making choices amongvarious strategies for defining and achieving a GHGreduction. The business goals, any relevant policycontext, and stakeholder discussions should informthese choices.
The following sections outline the ten steps involved.
Although presented sequentially, in practice targetsetting involves cycling back and forth between the steps.It is assumed that the company has developed a GHGinventory before implementing these steps. Figure 12summarizes the steps.
1. Obtain senior management commitment
As with any corporate wide target, senior managementbuy-in and commitment particularly at the board/CEOlevel is a prerequisite for a successful GHG reductionprogram. Implementing a reduction target is likely tonecessitate changes in behavior and decision-makingthroughout the organization. It also requires estab-lishing an internal accountability and incentive systemand providing adequate resources to achieve the target.This will be difficult, if not impossible, without seniormanagement commitment. GUIDANCESetting a GHG Target
CHAPTER 11 76BOX 4. Comparing absolute and intensity targets
ABSOLUTE TARGETS reduce absolute emissions over time
(Example: reduce CO2by 25 percent below 1994 levels by 2010)
Advantages
•Designed to achieve a reduction in a specified quantity of GHGs
emitted to the atmosphere
•Environmentally robust as it entails a commitment to reduce GHGs by
a specified amount
•Transparently addresses potential stakeholder concerns about
the need to manage absolute emissions
Disadvantages
•Target base year recalculations for significant structural changes
to the organization add complexity to tracking progress over time
•Does not allow comparisons of GHG intensity/efficiency
•Recognizes a company for reducing GHGs by decreasing produc-
tion or output (organic decline, see chapter 5)
•May be difficult to achieve if the company grows unexpectedly
and growth is linked to GHG emissions
INTENSITY TARGETS reduce the ratio of emissions relative to
a business metric over time (Example:  reduce CO2by 12 percent per
tonne of clinker between 2000 and 2008)
Advantages
•Reflects GHG performance improvements independent of organic
growth or decline
•Target base year recalculations for structural changes are