File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 91 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[118]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
B.1	 When	the	specific	land	is	known	
B.1.1	 Determining	attributable	land-use	impacts
Land-use impacts are attributable to a product if the
following are true:
•The carbon stock change is the direct result of
extraction or production of biogenic material to create
a product
•The carbon stock change was caused by human
intervention with the intent of creating a product
•The carbon stock change occurred within the
assessment period – 20 years or a single harvest period
from the extraction (e.g., harvesting) of a biogenic
product or product component, whichever timeframe
is longer
EXAMPLES
1. A product is made from an annual crop that was
harvested in 2010. The crop is from a plot of land
where the last known carbon stock change occurred 50
years ago.  In this case no land-use change impacts are 
attributable to the product.  
2. A product is made from wood that is extracted from a
naturally grown forest (extraction and production occur
in the same year). If the extraction of above-ground
biomass causes a change in carbon stock of the land,
the impacts of the land-use change are attributable to
the product.6
3. A product is made from wood that is grown on a
plantation. The wood takes 28 years to grow, and is
harvested in 2010 from a plot of land that was converted
from a natural growth forest in 1982. Because the
length of the harvest cycle is longer than 20 years, the
company must consider any carbon stock changes that
may have occurred up to 28 years ago (from 2010 to
1982). Therefore, the impacts of the land-use change (i.e.,
the original clearing of the natural growth forest) are
attributable to the product.   
4. A product is made from a bi-annual crop that was
harvested in 2010. The plot of land used to grow the crop
was converted from forest in 2000 due to a naturally
occurring fire.7 Because the carbon stock change was
not caused by human intervention with the intent of
creating a product, the land-use change impacts are not
attributable to the product. B.1.2	 Calculating	land-use	change	impacts
When information about the specific land is available,
collecting data for land-use change impacts follows
the same data collection and quality requirements
given in chapter 8 of this standard.  For example, if the 
reporting company owns the land from which a product is
harvested, primary data are required. Primary data from a
supplier is preferred for land not owned by the reporting
company. These types of data are collected directly from
the production site, with actual areas and the mass or
volume of inputs used.  
Even with primary data from the production site, it is
unlikely that primary data is available for the measurement
of carbon stock changes and emissions from soils. In some
cases secondary data is available in peer-reviewed journals;
otherwise, common sources include:
 •Sector-specific activity data/emission factors:  These 
data are usually provided by associations, cooperatives,
and institutes representing a particular sector. It can
include aggregate activity data/emissions from site-
specific sources.
 •Country-specific activity data/emission factors:  
Information that reflects country-specific biomes,
agricultural practices, climate conditions, soil types,
vegetation groups, etc. This can be further broken
down into regional data. This type of information can
be found in national greenhouse gas inventories and
other official government publications, as well as from
country experts.  
 •Generic activity data/emission factors:  These are 
default values provided by the IPCC8, FAOSTAT9, etc.
These data refer to broad categories, such as high
activity clay soils and tropical rainforest, and usually
include carbon stock change impacts as well as land-
use change practice emissions within the default
emission factor.
Figure B.1 is a simplified illustration to show how carbon
stock information can be used to calculate land-use
change impacts. In this example, forest land is converted
into cropland, creating a 150-ton release of carbon due
to the change in carbon stock. If several carbon stock