File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 43 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ta ke decades to reach equilibrium following a change in farm management or land use . Th ese special features of agriculture have important implications for whether and how C stocks should be included within GHG inventories . This chapter :  Describes how changes in C stocks should be reported in terms of CO 2 fluxes .  Describes the types of CO 2 fluxes that should / s hould not be included in inventories .  Describes how the CO 2 fluxes from long - term changes in C stocks can be spread over multiple reporting periods .

Summary of requirements and main recommendations:
 Companies should report the net CO 2 fluxes (in tonnes CO 2) to/from organic C
stocks in mineral/organic soils and above-ground and below-ground woody
biomass, as well as the CO 2 emissions from DOM and biomass combustion.
 Natural disturbances, Payments for Environmental Services (PESs), and
conservation areas should be accounted fo r equivalently to other agricultural
activities.
 Companies should use peer -reviewed methods for CO 2 flux calculations.
 When relevant, companies should amortize changes in C stocks evenly over time
using a fixed-rate approach.
 Companies should account for historical changes in land use or management
occurring on or afte r the base period.
8.1 Including flux and stock data in inventories  

Companies  should report net CO 2 flux data 
Because of the reversibility of C stocks, cha nges to C stocks can be quantified using data
on:
 Stock size, when measured in units of mass of C (e.g., metric tonnes C/ha) at two
points in time; or
 The net balance of CO 2 emissions and CO 2 removals (‘net fluxes’) to or from a
stock, measured in units of mass of CO 2.

Both approaches are equally valid. Under ei ther, companies should take care to use
methods that treat soil depth consistently, particularly in the context of LUC. For
instance, reference stock values might be available for soil C stocks in forest and

--- Page 61 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

61
cropland - if these are not de fined to a consistent depth10, some of the estimated stock
difference will reflect methodological differe nces rather than actual variation.
While companies should report net CO
2 flux data, they may also report data on stock size
(when available) to provide us eful context for interpreting inventory results. Stock size
data can be converted to net flux data by multiplying the mass of stock change by ସସ
ଵଶ,
which is the ratio of th e molecular weights of CO 2 and elemental carbon.  

Companies  should use peer-reviewed methods for CO 2 flux calculations 
This Guidance does not prescribe speci fic methodologies for calculating the CO 2 fluxes
to/from C stocks. Any of the general approach es detailed in Chapter 7.3 may be used, as
long as the underlying methodology has been scientifically vetted (i.e., has undergone
peer review). Appendix III lists many, scie ntifically published and well established
calculation tools for estimating CO 2 fluxes.   

8.2 Reporting recommendations for different C stocks