File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 50 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[64]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standardrequirements
Allocation due to recycling processes can be especially
challenging. Recycling occurs when a product or material
exits the life cycle of the studied product to be reused
or recycled as a material input into another product’s life
cycle. This creates a unique allocation scenario because
the common processes for recycling are often shared
between different life cycles.
When recycling occurs in a studied product’s boundary,
companies need to allocate the emissions and removals
associated with the extraction and processing of raw
materials and the final disposal of products (including
recycling) between more than one product life cycle
(i.e., the product that delivers the recycled material and
the subsequent product which uses recycled material).
Therefore, all allocation requirements for common
processes also apply to allocation due to recycling.
However, because of the additional complexity
associated with recycling processes, this standard
provides two specific methods for allocating emissions
and removals between product life cycles: the closed
loop approximation method and the recycled content
method. The closed loop approximation method is a type
of system expansion that accounts for the impact that
end-of-life recycling has on the net virgin acquisition of
a material. The recycled content method allocates the
recycling process emissions and removals to the life cycle
that uses the recycled material.
If neither the closed loop approximation nor the recycled
content method is appropriate, companies may use
another method if all of the following are true:
•The method conforms to the allocation and all other
requirements of this standard (including being
disclosed and justified in the inventory report)
•The method accounts for all emissions and removals
due to recycling (i.e., applies an allocation factor
between 0 and 100 percent consistently between
inputs and outputs to avoid double counting or
undercounting emissions)
•The method uses as the basis for allocation (in the
following order of preference, if feasible): a physical
properties factor, an economic value factor, or a factor
based on the number of subsequent uses2
Companies shall disclose and justify
the methods used to avoid allocation or
perform allocation due to co-products
or recycling. When using the closed loop
approximation method, companies shall
report displaced emissions and removals
separately from the studied product’s end-
of-life stage inventory.
Regardless of which allocation methods are used,
companies shall report a brief explanation of the choice
of specific allocation methods and factors (if applicable)
used in the inventory, including why the methods and
factors most accurately reflect the studied product’s or
co-product’s contribution to the common process’s total
emissions and removals (See chapter 13).
When the closed loop approximation method is used in
a GHG inventory, the virgin material displacement factor
(as described in section 9.3.6) is subtracted from the total
inventory results. However, the displacement factor shall
be reported separately from the percentage of inventory
results by stage to avoid a negative end-of-life value.

--- Page 67 of 148 ---