File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 25 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Feed production Globally , feed production accounts for 45 % of the product - level GHG emissions across all types of livestock ( Gerbe r et al . , 2013 ) . It is more important in the life cycle inventories of egg , chicken and pork , compared to those of milk and beef , where enteric fermentation dominates . Feed production em issions come from many of the sources described in Chapter 4 . 2 ; particularly , soil management , LUC , and fertilizer production , as well as electricity use dur ing drying and processing .

Refrigeration
Refrigeration is the major GHG-intensive co mponent of the downstream supply chain.
Refrigeration emissions occur during initial chilling, transport, storage, catering and
retail. Limited data are available, but th is “cold chain” coul d account for about one
percent of global GHG emissions (James and James, 2010).  

--- Page 33 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

33

Part 2: DEVELOPING CORPORATE
INVENTORIES

--- Page 34 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

34
 Chapter 5: Setting Inventory Boundaries  
Agricultural companies vary tremendously in terms of their organizational structures and
business operations. Common examples include the degree of vertical integration, the
types of leases entered into for land and equipment, and the manner in which agricultural
products are sold off the farm. This variation poses a challenge to ensuring that emissions sources are included in inventories in a cons istent way over time, both within and across
companies. Fortunately, specific approaches are available to help companies determine
which sources should be included – th ese approaches relate to setting inventory
boundaries .  
This chapter:
 Describes approaches for setting orga nizational boundaries to determine which
business operations should be included in an inventory.
 Describes approaches for se tting operational boundaries that define whether and
how emissions sources associated with these operations should be reported in
inventories.

Summary of requirements and main recommendations:
 Companies shall separately account fo r and report on scope 1 and 2 at a
minimum.
 When setting operational boundaries, compan ies should take appropriate account
of production contracts and other forms of agricultural contracting, land and
equipment leases, and membership of co-operatives.

5.1 Setting organizational boundaries  
Organizational boundaries determine which land and operating facilities, such as barns
and processing plants (collectively termed ‘operations’ in this Guidance), shall be
included in an inventory. Three ‘consolid ation’ approaches can be used to set
organizational boundaries: 1. Operational control . A company accounts for 100% of the GHG fluxes to/from an
operation over which it has the authority  to introduce and implement its own 
operating policies.
2. Financial control . A company accounts for 100% of the fluxes to/from an operation
over which it has the ability to direct fina ncial and operating polic ies with a view to
gaining economic benefits.
3. Equity-share approach . A company accounts for the fluxes to/from an operation
according to its share of equity (or percenta ge of economic interest) in that operation.
Various criteria can be used by companies to determine if they exert operational control
of an operation. For instance, operati onal control would be held if:  
• The operation is operated by the reporti ng company, whether for itself or under a
contractual obligati on to other owners or partic ipants in the operation.  

--- Page 35 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

35
• The operation is operated by a joint venture (or equivalent), in respect of which the
reporting company has the ability to de termine management and board-level
decisions of the joint venture.
• The reporting company holds an operating license.
• The reporting company sets environmen tal, health and safety policies.