File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 82 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

key purpose of the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard
is to provide companies with guidance on how to
develop inventories that provide an accurate and
complete picture of their GHG emissions both fromtheir direct operations as well as those along the valuechain.
1For some types of companies, this is not
possible without addressing the company’s impacts onsequestered atmospheric carbon.
2
Sequestered atmospheric carbon
During photosynthesis, plants remove carbon (as CO2)
from the atmosphere and store it in plant tissue. Untilthis carbon is cycled back into the atmosphere, itresides in one of a number of “carbon pools.” Thesepools include (a) above ground biomass (e.g., vegeta-tion) in forests, farmland, and other terrestrialenvironments, (b) below ground biomass (e.g., roots),and (c) biomass-based products (e.g., wood products)both while in use and when stored in a landfill.
Carbon can remain in some of these pools for long
periods of time, sometimes for centuries. An increase inthe stock of sequestered carbon stored in these poolsrepresents a net removal of carbon from the atmos-phere; a decrease in the stock represents a net additionof carbon to the atmosphere.
Why include impacts on sequestered carbon
in corporate GHG inventories?
It is generally recognized that changes in stocks of
sequestered carbon and the associated exchanges ofcarbon with the atmosphere are important to nationallevel GHG emissions inventories, and consequently, theseimpacts on sequestered carbon are commonly addressedin national inventories (UNFCCC, 2000). Similarly, forcompanies in biomass-based industries, such as the forestproducts industry, some of the most significant aspects ofa company’s overall impact on atmospheric CO
2levels
will occur as a result of impacts on sequestered carbon intheir direct operations as well as along their value chain.Some forest product companies have begun to addressthis aspect of their GHG footprint within their corporateGHG inventories (Georgia Pacific, 2002). Moreover,WBCSD’s Sustainable Forest Products Industry WorkingGroup—which represents a significant cluster of inte-grated forestry companies operating internationally—isdeveloping a project that will further investigate carbonmeasurement, accounting, reporting, and ownershipissues associated with the forest products value chain.Information on a company’s impacts on sequestered
atmospheric carbon can be used for strategic planning, foreducating stakeholders, and for identifying opportunitiesfor improving the company’s GHG profile. Opportunitiesmay also exist to create value from reductions createdalong the value chain by companies acting alone or inpartnership with raw material providers or customers.
Accounting for sequestered carbon in the
context of the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard
Consensus methods have yet to be developed under the
GHG Protocol Corporate Standard for accounting of
sequestered atmospheric carbon as it moves through thevalue chain of biomass-based industries. Nonetheless,some issues that would need to be addressed whenaddressing impacts on sequestered carbon in corporateinventories can be examined in the context of existingguidance provided by the
GHG Protocol Corporate
Standard as highlighted below.
SETTING ORGANIZATIONAL BOUNDARIES  
The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard outlines two
approaches for consolidating GHG data—the equity shareapproach and the control approach. In some cases, itmay be possible to apply these approaches directly toemissions/removals associated with sequestered atmos-pheric carbon. Among the issues that may need to beexamined is the ownership of sequestered carbon underthe different types of contractual arrangementsinvolving land and wood ownership, harvesting rights,and control of land management and harvesting deci-sions. The transfer of ownership as carbon movesthrough the value chain may also need to be addressed.In some cases, as part of a risk management programfor instance, companies may be interested in performingvalue chain assessments of sequestered carbon withoutregard to ownership or control just as they might do forscope 2 and 3 emissions.
SETTING OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES
As with GHG emissions accounting, setting operationalboundaries for sequestered carbon inventories would helpcompanies transparently report their impacts onsequestered carbon along their value chain. Companiesmay, for example, provide a description of the valuechain capturing impacts that are material to the resultsof the analysis. This should include which pools are
88Accounting for Sequestered Atmospheric CarbonAPPENDIXB
A

--- Page 91 of 116 ---