File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 61 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[75]
CHAPTER 09 Allocation
guidance9.3.8 Collecting recycling data
To abide by the attributional approach of the standard,
data used to determine the amount of recycled material
output is based either on specific recycling data of a
product, or on average recycling data for the product in
the geographic location where the product is consumed
(as defined by the use profile). Recycling data is subject to
the same requirements and guidance given in chapter 8
for data collection and quality.
Companies using the closed loop approximation method
should ensure that the data used to determine recycled
material output excludes material where the inherent
properties have changed. Where the only data available aggregates recycled materials, and it is known that some
inherent property change occurs, companies should
assume a percentage of property loss based on other
available data. Examples of other available data include
reduction in economic value or percentage loss of material
property such as elasticity. Where it is not possible to
disaggregate the data but some portion of the material
properties are known to change, it should be clearly noted
as a data quality limitation in the inventory report.
Anvil Knitwear, Inc. performed a cradle-to-grave GHG
inventory on two of their t-shirt lines: one that contains
a pre-consumer recycled yarn input and the other a post-
consumer recycled yarn input. The AnvilSustainable™
t-shirt is made from a blend of transitional cotton and
recycled polyester (from recycled plastic bottles). The
AnvilRecycled® t-shirt is produced from yarn spun from
recycled textile waste clippings from textile cut and sew
operations. Additionally, clippings from the cut and sew
operations of the AnvilRecycled® t-shirt are sold as a
recycled material output.
The AnvilSustainableTM t-shirt contains 50 percent
post-consumer Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) from
recycled plastic bottles and after use is assumed to
be disposed of in a conventional landfill. Because no
recycling occurs at the end-of-life, Anvil used the recycled
content method to account for the recycled PET input.
The attributable processes for the material acquisition
and preprocessing of recycled PET included the curbside
collection, sorting, and flaking of PET bottles.
However, accounting for recycling in the AnvilRecycled®
t-shirt was more challenging because of the pre-consumer
recycled yarn input and output. In previous assessments,
Anvil took a conservative approach of assuming the
pre-consumer yarn input had the same emission factor for material acquisition and preprocessing as virgin
yarn. However, with the additional guidance provided
by this standard and during the road testing process,
Anvil determined that the recycled content method was
also appropriate for the AnvilRecycled® t-shirt. Anvil
performed the recycled content method by including
the transport, cleaning, and production of the yarn
made from recycled textile clippings as the attributable
processes for the acquisition and preprocessing of the
yarn. They also assumed no attributable processes for the
end-of-life processing of the sold clipping from their cut
and sew operations because they are used as a recycled
input into other product life cycles. The use of the
recycled content method reduced the GHG inventory of
the AnvilRecycled® t-shirt
significantly compared to
the inventory conducted
assuming a virgin yarn
emission factor. The
additional specificity
provided in this standard
gave Anvil confidence
that they were using  
an established and
accepted recycling
allocation method. Anvil Knitwear
the recycled content
method reduced the
GHG inventory of
the AnvilRecycled®
t-shirt significantly
compared to the
inventory conducted
assuming a virgin
yarn emission factor.

--- Page 78 of 148 ---