File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 55 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[69]
CHAPTER 09 Allocation
guidanceelectricity). In this example, system expansion would not
be appropriate if it was not known that the black liquor
created excess power or if a marginal emission factor was
used as data for the electricity substitution.
9.3.3 Performing allocation
Physical allocation
When performing physical allocation, the factor chosen
should most accurately reflect the underlying physical
relationship between the studied product, co-product,
and process emissions and removals. For example, if the
mass of the process outputs determine the amount of
emissions and removals, choosing an energy content
factor would not provide the most accurate allocation.
Examples of physical allocation factors include:
•Mass of co-product outputs
•Volume of cargo transported
•Energy content of heat and electricity co-products
•Number of units produced
•Protein content of food co-products
•Chemical compositionEconomic allocation
Economic allocation is the division of emissions from a
common process to the studied product and co-product(s)
according to the economic values of the products when
leaving the multi-output process.
When selecting an economic allocation factor,
companies should use the price of the co-product(s)
directly after it leaves the common process (i.e., its value
prior to any further processing). When this direct price
is not available or cannot be evaluated, market prices or
prices at a later point of the life cycle may be used, but
downstream costs should be subtracted to the fullest
extent possible. The market price is the value of the
product in a commercial market.
Other relationships
The “other relationships” allocation method uses
established sector, company, academic, or other sources
of conventions and norms for allocating emissions when
neither physical nor economic allocation is applicable.
When no established conventions are available and
the other allocation methods are not applicable to the
common process, a company may make assumptions
GNP Company, a U.S. poultry producer, conducted a product
inventory on their Just BARE® Boneless and Skinless
Chicken Breasts. Just BARE® products come from birds that
receive no antibiotics and are fed special vegetarian feed
formulations. The product package contains 2 to  
3 individual chicken breasts packaged for retail purchase.
Each package is traceable to the specific farm on which
the chicken was raised and the product is shipped to
retail locations in the
continental United States.
The energy and material
inputs for Just BARE®
as well as other branded
products are available on
a facility-wide basis. GNP
Company identified mass
and economic allocation as two potential allocation methods. The chicken breasts
represent 16 percent of the chicken’s total mass and
about 35 percent of the revenue.  While a range of 
products come from the whole chicken, the majority of
consumer demand is for the boneless, skinless breasts.
Other fresh chicken co-products such as tenders, thighs,
and drumsticks would not be produced without also
producing the chicken breasts. Additionally, about half of
the weight of the chicken consists of inedible parts that
have a low selling price and are not sold in retail stores.
Therefore, GNP Company identified economic allocation
as the most appropriate method.
Using economic allocation, 35 percent of the facility’s
energy and material activity data were allocated to the
boneless, skinless breasts. Net selling price data by meat
cut were averaged over a one-year period to determine
the economic allocation factor.GNP Company, makers of Just BARE Chicken
Net selling price
data by meat cut
were averaged over
a one-year period
to determine  
the economic
allocation factor.

--- Page 72 of 148 ---