File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 45 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2 . CO 2 fluxes to / from livestock The carbon incorporated into animal tissues or lost through animal respiration should not be reported in an inventory . Special note : Accounting for natural disturbances , conservation areas , and payments for environmental services Natural disturbances are varied and include fires , windstorms , landslides , droughts , and pest outbreaks . Conservation areas are lands where agricultural production has been limited or halted so as to provide environm ental benefits , such as maintaining or - - - Page 63 of 103 - - - GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

63
improving water quality or wildlife habitat. Such areas may be established mandatorily,
to meet legal requirements for resource pr otection, or voluntarily, to contribute to the
public good and/or take advant age of financial incentives. Payments for Environmental
Services  (PESs) are incentives offered to fa rmers or landowners in exchange for 
managing their land to provide some sort of  ecological service. Box 8-1 shows some 
examples of conservation areas and PESs.    

Natural disturbances, conservation areas, and PESs are treated identically to other
sources and activities
The CO
2 fluxes associated with natural distur bances, conservation ar eas and PESs should
be treated the same way as other CO 2 fluxes, following the recommendations outlined
above. The reason is that companies often have some measure of control over these
fluxes - they are often be able to influence th e frequency or intensit y of disturbances and
the corresponding amount of emissions, while  operational decisions frequently lead 
directly to the formation of  conservation areas. For instance, many forest management 
practices can reduce the risk of  disturbances - forest thi nning can increase resilience to Box 8-1. Examples of 
conservation areas and
PESs in agriculture  
Conservation easements:
A legal agreement voluntarily entered into by a property owner and a qualified conservation or
ganization such as a

--- Page 64 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

64
 droughts and insect/diseases outbreaks, while  fuel hazard reduction and the use of 
prescribed fires can reduce the risk of unc ontrolled fires. Another reason for not
excluding natural disturbances is that it is of ten challenging to identify whether an event
actually constitutes a disturbance. For instance,  there are no universally accepted criteria 
for defining droughts.  

GHG fluxes attributable to disturbances m ay also be reported in a separate line
item   
Companies may separately estimate the amount  of GHG fluxes that they consider 
attributable to natural distur bances and report this amount out side of the scopes in a line
item that is separate from the scopes and the Biogenic Carbon category. This reporting is
additional to the report ing of these same fluxes within the scopes or the Biogenic Carbon
category. Estimating the specific GHG effects of individual disturbances is challenging
because:
1. Ambiguity often exists around whether an event is a ‘disturbance’ or simply
within the bounds of ‘normal’ envi ronmental variation. Companies might
therefore have to establish criteria for consistently recognizing disturbances.  
2. Natural disturbances may be rare events, in which case the effects on estimated
CO 2 fluxes may be small when averaged over large areas or long periods of time
and therefore difficult to accurately quan tify. For instance, the effects of a one-
year period of insect defoliation might be  difficult to distinguish from background 
fluxes over a three-year peri od. In contrast, catastrophi c disturbances such as
wind storms may cause obvious and easil y estimated changes in C stocks.  

Because of these challenges, companies should evaluate the likely size of a disturbance
before committing the resources to quantifyi ng it. For the sake of practicality, if
companies do choose to report disturbance em issions, they may assume that all post-
disturbance emissions occur in the year of  the disturbance even t. That is, the CO 2 
emissions from the long-term decay of DOM created during an event (e.g., downed trees
from a windstorm) can be reported in the year  of the event. Alternatively, these emissions 
can be amortized (see Chapter 8.3).  

8.3 Amortizing changes in carbon stocks over time
What is ‘amortizing’ and when is it necessary?