File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 37 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

52
7.3 Selecting a calculation approach
GHG fluxes can be determined in differen t ways, ranging from the use of highly
specialized, field-scale measurement equi pment to global emission factors. This
Guidance does not require or recommend the use of a specific calculation approach or
tool. Instead companies should select an appr oach that best meets their objectives for
compiling an inventory and that meets the GHG accounting and reporti ng principles (see
Chapter 3 and below).   The distinction between mechanical and non-mechanical sources becomes paramount 
when calculating GHG fluxes and the associated  levels of uncertainty. In general, GHG 
fluxes for mechanical sources can be calculate d with higher accuracy. This is especially
true of mobile and stationary source s, whose emissions are primarily of CO
2 and can be
calculated based on only a few items of informa tion – mostly the type and amount of fuel
used. In contrast, the GHG fluxes to/from non-mechanical sources depend on complex interactions between management practices and variable environmental conditions. As a
result, GHG flux data for these sources ar e likely to have much higher uncertainty,
regardless of the calculation approach chosen. This difference has important implications
for how these data should be reporte d in inventories (see Chapter 9).  
Because calculation tools for mechanical t ools are widely available (e.g., from GHG
reporting programs), this section will  focus on non-mechanical sources.  
How are GHG fluxes calculated for non-mechanical sources?
Broadly, four different types of calculation approaches can be used for non-mechanical
sources (Table 7-4):
 Field measurements
 Emission factors
 Empirical models and process-based models

Field measurements
Many, but not all, GHG emission sources in ag riculture can be measured using either
direct or indirect measuremen t techniques. Direct techniques  include controlled livestock 
chambers that measure the CH 4 emissions from enteric fermentation, flux chambers that
measure the N 2O and CO 2 emissions from plots of land, a nd gas flux meters that measure
the CH 4 emissions from certain livestock wa ste management systems (e.g., covered
anaerobic lagoons). Indirect t echniques include the measurement of carbon stocks before
and after a change in management practices or land use. Indirect techniques are often
much simpler and easier, but may require additi onal planning ahead of time to capture the
‘before’ scenario. While useful for research, both direct and indirect  techniques are often 
far too costly for developing corporate inventories.  

Emission factors  
The simplest approach involves the multipli cation of management activity data by a
relevant emission factor, which is a coeffi cient describing the amount of GHG flux per

--- Page 53 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

53
unit of activity. For instance, to calculate the CH 4 emissions from enteric fermentation,
emissions may be estimated by multiplying the number of dairy cattle by an emission factor that specifies how much CH
4 is emitted per head of dairy cattle. The accuracy of
this approach depends not only on the accuracy of the activity data, but also on how specific the factor is to the specific co mbination of environmental factors and
management activities concerned. Default emi ssion factors are largely either based on
field measurements at individual research site s or represent average values across a range
of sites.