File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 29 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

40
 Table 5-3. Emissions from leased assets: Lessee’s perspective  
Type of leasing arrangement
Approach used for
organizational
boundaries Financial/capital lease Operating lease
Equity share or financial
control Lessee does have ownership and
financial control; therefore, the emissions from the leased asset (land or machinery) are scope 1
and those from purchased
electricity are scope 2  Lessee does not have ownership 
or financial control; therefore, the emissions from the leased asset (land, machinery, or purchased
electricity) are scope 3 (Scope 3
Category 8: “Upstream leased assets”)
Operational control Lessee does have operational control; therefore, the emissions from
the leased asset (land or machinery) are scope 1 and those from purchased electricity are scope 2

Table 5-4. Emissions from leased assets: Lessor’s perspective  
Type of leasing arrangement
Approach used for
organizational
boundaries Financial/capital lease Operating lease
Equity share or financial
control Lessor does not have ownership
or financial control; therefore, the emissions from the leased asset (land, machinery, or purchased electricity) are scope
3 (Scope 3 Category 8:
“Upstream leased assets”) Lessor does have ownership and
financial control; therefore, the emissions from the leased asset (land or machinery) are scope 1 and those from purchased
electricity are scope 2
Operational control Lessor does not have operational control; therefore, the emissions
from the leased asset (land, machin ery, or purchased electricity) are
scope 3 (Scope 3 Category 8: “Upstream leased assets”)  

4. Membership of co-operatives  
A co-operative is a business that is owned and controlled by the member organizations
that use its services and w hose benefits are shared by the members on the basis of use
(Table 5-1). Agricultural co-operatives take  many forms, but can broadly be grouped into 
marketing, purchasing, and service co-operatives (Table 5-5).  
Accounting under the equity share approach. Ma ny producers will have a relatively small
percentage patronage of their co-operative and need not account for its emissions under
the equity share approach. However, some producers may have a si gnificant percentage
patronage and should account for a correspondin g percentage of the co-operative’s scope
1, scope 2, and (optionally) sc ope 3 emissions under the equity  share approach. Note that 
the nature of the emissions source will vary wi dely depending on the type of co-operative

--- Page 41 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

41
(see Table 5-5). For instance, the members of a purchasing co-operative would have
scope 1 emissions relating to the ma nufacture of feed and fertilizer.  

Accounting under either contro l approach. A Co-operative does not fall within the
organizational boundaries of its members and only the co-operative itself should account
for its emissions under scope 1 and 2. I ndividual members may account for certain
emissions under scope 3 should those arise fr om activities conducted by the co-operative
specifically on their own behalf  (and not on that of other members). For instance, the 
member of a service co-operative might  account for the emissions from the co-
operative’s processing of anim al feed, should that feed be used by that member (the
relevant scope 3 category is Category 1: “Purchased goods and services”).  
 Table 5-5. Co-operatives and operational boundaries   
Type of co-operative  Co-operative activity
Marketing  Negotiate prices and terms of sale of their members’ products with 
buyers  
Process members’ products into other products
Distribute members’ products to retailers under own brand name  
Purchasing  Provide access to production supplies such as feed, fuel, fertilizer, and 
seed
Produce fertilizers and feed
Service  Provide farm-specific services, such as applying fertilizer, lime, or 
pesticides; processing animal feed; and harvesting crops  

--- Page 42 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance