File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 24 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

life cycle processes through a process map The following sections include requirements and guidance to help companies define the boundary of the inventory . 7 . 2 Requirements The boundary of the product GHG inventory shall include all attributable processes . An inventory consists of service , material , and energy flows that become the product , make the product , and carry the product through its life cycle . These are defined as attributable processes . Examples include the studied product ’ s components and packaging , processes that create the product , materials used to improve its quality

(e.g., fertilizers and lubricants), and energy used to move,
create, or store the product.
Companies shall report the life cycle stage
definitions and descriptions.
Interconnected stages make up a product’s life cycle,
and these are a useful way to organize processes, data
collection, and inventory results. The standard identifies
requirements

--- Page 36 of 148 ---

[34]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
 [34]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
requirements
five general life cycle stages, which are illustrated in
figure 7.1 and referred to throughout the standard.
Companies may elaborate or classify the stages differently to
better reflect a specific product’s life cycle. For example,  
a company may want to disaggregate into more stages (such
as separating distribution from storage) or use a term that
better describes the processes taking place within the stage,
such as service delivery when the studied product is a service.
All stages should have clear and logical boundaries and be
consecutive and interlinked throughout the life cycle.
Companies shall disclose and justify any
exclusions of attributable processes in the
inventory report. Attributable processes may be excluded from the
inventory if all of the following are true:
• A data gap exists because primary or secondary data
cannot be collected
• Extrapolated and proxy data cannot be determined to
fill the data gap
• An estimation determines the data are insignificant
Definitions of data types and guidance on filling data gaps
are included in chapter 8.
Companies shall disclose and justify any exclusions of
attributable processes in the inventory report. This should
include a description of the estimation technique used
and the insignificance threshold defined. end of lifeFigure [7.1]  The five stages of a product life cycle (simplified for illustrative purposes)
recycled/reused into  
another product life cyclereturned to
naturenatur e
use

end-of-lifematerial acquisition  
& pre-processing
production
  distribution  
& storagenatur e
use

end-of-lifematerial acquisition  
& pre-processing
production
  distribution  
& storage

--- Page 37 of 148 ---