File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 89 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[116]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
See chapter 14 for more information on performance
tracking and setting reduction targets.
Consumer and business purchasing decisions, quantitative
product labeling, and performance claims:
•The unit of analysis should be identical
•The system boundaries and temporal boundary should
be equivalent
•The same allocation methods should be used for
similar processes
•The data types used and the data quality and
uncertainty of data should be reported and assessed to
determine if a fair comparison can be made
•The temporal and geographical representativeness of
the inventories should be assessed to determine if a
fair comparison can be made
•Third party assurance should be performed
ISO labels and declarations:
•Environmental Labels (Type I)1, Self-declared
Environmental Claims (Type II)2, Environmental Product
Declarations (Type III)3, and comparative assertions4
should meet the accounting and communication
requirements of the respective standardsA.1 Role of product rules
Product rules provide additional specifications that enable
valid comparisons of two or more products. Product rules
may vary in quality. When developing a new product
rule or evaluating the quality of an existing product rule
before use, criteria to consider include whether:
•The rule is developed by a diverse group of
stakeholders with relevant subject matter expertise
•The rule is peer-reviewed by qualified experts
 •There are safeguards in place to prevent conflict  
of interest
•The rules apply internationally so they can be adopted
by other programs and policies
•A policy is in place to determine when product rules
are updated
Endnotes
1  International Organization for Standardization, ISO 14024:1999, 
Environmental labels and declarations -- Type I environmental
labeling -- Principles and procedures. Geneva.
2 International Organization for Standardization, ISO 14021:1999,
Environmental labels and declarations -- Self-declared
environmental claims (Type II environmental labeling). Geneva.
3 International Organization for Standardization, ISO 14025:2006,
Environmental labels and declarations -- Type III environmental
declarations -- Principles and procedures. Geneva.
4 International Organization for Standardization, ISO 14044:2006,
Life Cycle Assessment: Requirements and Guidelines.Table [A.2] The use of Product Standard  for product comparisons
Supported by the Product  
Standard  “as-is” Supported by the  Product Standard with additional GHG 
program specifications or product specific guidance
Performance tracking
Consumer and business purchasing decisions
Product labels
Performance claims

--- Page 119 of 148 ---

[117]
AppendicesThis appendix provides guidance on identifying when land-use change impacts are
attributable to the studied product. If they are attributable, guidance is also included
for calculating and allocating those impacts.1
For studied products whose life cycle includes biogenic
materials (materials produced by living organisms
or biological processes, not fossilized or from fossil
sources), attributable processes associated with those
materials include emissions and removals associated
with agricultural and forestry practices such as growth,
fertilizer application, cultivation, and harvesting.  In 
addition to these agricultural and forestry practices,
land-use change impacts may be attributable to a studied
product’s material acquisition and preprocessing stage.  
Land-use change impacts2 include the following:
•Biogenic CO2 emissions and removals due to carbon
stock change occurring as a results of land conversion
within or between land-use categories
•Biogenic and non-biogenic CO2, N2O, and CH4
emissions resulting from the preparation of converted
land, such as biomass burning or liming3
This appendix provides guidance for two situations: when
the specific land that the product or product component
originates from is known, and when it is not.  The 
concepts of assessment period, amortization period, and
distribution of impacts are used across both situations.
It is important to note that while this appendix focuses
on agricultural and forest products, significant land-use
change impacts are not limited to biogenic products.
Any company with a studied product that uses a large
amount of land, such as a new settlement, should
use this guidance to determine whether the land use
changed within the assessment period and whether
that had any impact on the area’s carbon stocks.
As referenced in chapter 7, companies are required to
disclose the method used to calculate land-use change
impacts in the inventory report.