File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 47 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[58]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidance8.3.10  Data gaps
Data gaps exist when there is no primary or secondary
data that is sufficiently representative of the given
process in the product’s life cycle. For most processes
where data are missing, it should be possible to obtain
sufficient information to provide a reasonable estimate.
Therefore, there should be few, if any, data gaps.  The 
following sections give additional guidance on filling data
gaps with proxy and estimated data.
Proxy data
Proxy data are data from similar processes that are used
as a stand-in for a specific process. Proxy data can be
extrapolated, scaled up, or customized to represent the
given process. Companies may customize proxy data
to more closely resemble the conditions of the studied
process in the product’s life cycle if enough information
exists to do so. Data can be customized to better match
geographical, technological, or other metrics of the
process. Identifying the critical inputs, outputs, and
other metrics should be based on other relevant product
inventories or other considerations (e.g., discussions with
a stakeholder consultant) when product inventories do
not exist. Examples of proxy data include:
•Using data on apples as a proxy for all fruit
•Using data on PET plastic processes when data on the
specific plastic input is unknown •Adapting an electricity grid emission factor for one
region to another region with a different generation mix
•Customizing the amount of material consumed by a
process from another product’s life cycle to match a
similar process in the studied product
Estimated data
When a company cannot collect proxy data to fill a
data gap, companies should estimate the data to
determine significance. If processes are determined to
be insignificant based on estimated data, the process
may be excluded from the inventory results. Criteria for
determining insignificance are outlined in chapter 7.
To assist with the data quality assessment, any
assumptions made in filling data gaps, along with the
anticipated effect on the product inventory final results,
should be documented. Figure 8.2 illustrates the guidance
for filling data gaps with proxy data or estimated data.
8.3.11 Improving data quality
Collecting data and assessing its quality is an iterative
process for improving the overall data quality of the
product inventory. If data sources are identified as low
quality using the data quality indicators, companies should
re-collect data for the particular process. The following
steps are useful when improving data quality.
are proxy data available?

is the process estimated
to be insignificant?
disclose and justify  
the data gap  
in the inventory report
collect new data
or
include estimated data in the
inventory results
fill	data	gap	with	this	secondary	dataFigure [8.2]  Decision tree for filling data gaps
yes
yesno
no

--- Page 61 of 148 ---