File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 23 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rice cultivation
The anaerobic decomposition of organic mate rial in flooded rice fields produces CH 4,
which escapes to the atmosphere, mostly by transport through the rice plants. The CH 4
emissions will depend on the number and duration of crops grown, water regimes before and during the cultivation pe riod, and organic and inorgani c soil amendments. Soil type,
temperature, and rice cultivar  are also important.   
Volatization
Storage /
treatment  
unit Soil DIRECT N2O EMISSIONS
DIRECT N2O EMISSIONSAddition of
fertilizer / farm
wastes Addition of
manure
Leaching / run‐offVolatization  
Deposition  Deposition

--- Page 30 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

30

Soil liming
Liming is used to reduce soil acidity and im prove plant growth. When added to soils,
carbonate limes such as limestone (CaCO 3) or dolomite (CaMg(CO 3)2) dissolve and may
release bicarbonate (HCO 3-), which then forms CO 2 through additional chemical
reactions. Whether CO 2 is emitted and the amount of emissions depends on soil factors,
climate regime, and the type of lime applied (i .e., limestone or dolomite, fine or course
textured). Non-carbonate limes, such as oxide s (e.g., CaO) and hydroxides of lime, do not
result in CO 2 emissions on farms, but their production causes CO 2 emissions from the
breakdown of carbonate raw materials.  

Management of carbon pools
The agricultural sector diffe rs profoundly from industrial s ectors in the importance of C
pools, which may act either as sources or sinks of CO 2 during agricultu ral land use or
LUC. These pools are of four main types (Figure 4-4):  
 Above-ground and below-ground bioma ss (e.g., trees, crops and roots).
 Dead organic matter (DOM) in or on soils  (i.e., decaying wood and leaf litter). 
 Soil organic matter. This category includes a ll non-living biomass th at is too fine to
be recognized as dead organic matter.
 Harvested products. Generally, this pool is short-lived in the agricultural sector as
crop products are rapidly c onsumed following harvesting. Harvested wood products
(HWPs) are a potential exception.
It is possible to disaggrega te these pools further. For instance, the DOM and biomass
pools can be subdivided into understory vegeta tion, standing dead tree, down dead tree,
and litter pools, etc. This level of disaggregation may be  useful depending on data 
availability and the intended accuracy of the inventory (see Chapter 8).  
 Carbon stocks  represent the quantity of C stored in pools. It may take C stocks decades to 
reach equilibrium following a change in farm  management. Ultimately, for agricultural 
land as a whole to sequester C, the sum of all stock  increases must exceed the sum of all 
stock  decreases (i.e., the sum of  all C gains through CO
2 fixation  must exceed the sum of 
all C losses through CO 2 and  CH 4 emissions and harvested products).   
Soil carbon pools
Both organic and inorganic forms of C exist and are found in soils. However, agriculture
has a larger impact on organic C pools, whic h are found in organic and mineral soils.  
 Organic C pools in organic soils. Organic so ils (e.g., those in peat and muck) have a
high percentage of organic matter by ma ss and develop under the poorly drained
conditions of wetlands when inputs of organic matter exceed losses of C from anaerobic decomposition. The drainage of orga nic soils to prepare land for agriculture
leads to CO
2 emissions - emission rates vary by climate, with drainage under warmer
conditions leading to faster decomposition rates. CO 2 emissions are also influenced
by drainage depth, limin g, and the fertility and consistenc y of the organic substrate.  

--- Page 31 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance