File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 47 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 8-2. When CO 2 fluxes can be amortized
CO 2 flux Time reporting requirement
 Sequestration in woody biomass
stocks  
 Sequestration in organic C stocks
of mineral soils  Amortize if the time interval of the
quantification approach exceeds one year
 Otherwise, report all the estimated
sequestration in the reporting period
Emissions from woody biomass
stocks Biomass combustion emissions should be
reported in the year of the intervention
Emissions from dead organic matter
(DOM) From the decomposition of DOM:
 Amortize, should capacity and data exist;
or
 Report in the year of intervention

From the combustion of DOM:
 Report in the year of intervention
Emissions from organic C stocks of
mineral soils  Amortize if the time interval of the
quantification approach exceeds one year
 Otherwise, report all the estimated
emissions in the year of the intervention
Emissions from organic soils Do not amortize – report losses as they occur
Sequestration in organic soils Do not amortize - report sequestration as it
occurs

--- Page 67 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

67
 How should CO 2 fluxes be amortized?  
 Companies  should amortize fluxes evenly over time 
When amortization is necessary, companies should use a linear-rate approach, wherein
the total amount of CO
2 flux is amortized evenly over multiple inventories. This involves
dividing the total flux by the number of y ears in the amortization period and then
reporting the quotient in each year of the amortization period. This approach is recommended because it provides the most cons istent way to distribute impacts for use in
a GHG inventory.

The length of the amortization period is context specific
The length of the amortization period may va ry depending on the stock concerned and the
quantification approach. In general, the am ortization period for a ny one stock should be:
 The length of the time dependence of the st ock change factor or emission factor;
or
 For woody biomass stocks, the length of the nominal harvest/ maturity cycle.
The second condition assumes that woody vege tation accumulates biomass for a finite
period until it is removed through harvest or re aches a steady state where there is no net
accumulation of C in biomass because growth rates have slowed and incremental gains from growth are offset by losses from na tural mortality, pruning or other losses.  
In the absence of other information, compan ies may assume an amortization period of 20
years for DOM stocks and the organic C stocks in mineral soils. This 20-year value is the
default time horizon in national GHG inve ntories submitted to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
11. This value may be too long
for certain stocks (e.g., soil stock changes in  tropical biomes) and too short for others 
(soil stock changes in boreal biomes). Companies may alternatively assume more specific
values used by individual countries  in their national inventories12.  

Companies  should account for historical LUC  
Companies should account for historical change s in land use that occur within a certain
‘look back’ period prior to th e base period. This look back  period should be equal in 
length to the amortization period for the stoc k concerned (e.g., 20 years if the default
IPCC amortization period for mineral soil or ganic stocks is used). Thus, if LUC
happened within the 5 years pr eceding the base period, it is considered best practice to
reflect it in the inventories for the base pe riod and later re porting periods, as needed.
Equivalently, if the sh ift occurred more than 20 years be fore the base pe riod, it should not
be reflected in the base period inventory.   As discussed in Chapter 6.2, the acquisition (o r divestment) of busin ess units that own 
land can trigger base period recalculations. C stocks may be changing on the newly-
transferred land as a result of land use ch anges introduced by the prior land-owner.

11 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories , Volume 4.
12 See http://unfccc.int/national_reports/annex_i_ghg_inventories/items/2715.php .  

--- Page 68 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance