File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 42 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[52]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidancea company that knows the cost of the fuel consumed in
a process and the cost per liter of fuel can easily convert
the fuel value into the physical amount of litres consumed
in the process.
Emission factors
Emission factors are the GHG emissions per unit of activity
data, and they are multiplied by activity data to calculate
GHG emissions. Emission factors may cover one type of
GHG (for example, CH4/liter of fuel) or they may include
many gases in units of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). Emission
factors can include a single process in a product’s life
cycle, or they can include multiple processes aggregated
together. Life cycle emission factors that include
emissions from all attributable upstream processes of a
product are often called cradle-to-gate emission factors.
Companies should understand which processes are
included in the inventory’s emission factors to ensure that
all processes in the product’s life cycle are accounted for
in the data collection process.
The types of emission factors needed depend on the
types of activity data collected. For example, if companies
collect financial activity data on a material input to a
process, they can select an EEIO emission factor to
calculate the upstream emissions. Conversely, a company
may first collect available emission factors and then
decide which type(s) of activity data to collect.
Examples of emission factor sources include life cycle
databases, published product inventory reports,
government agencies, industry associations, company-
developed factors, and peer reviewed literature. A list of databases is available at ( www.ghgprotocol.org ). More
information on calculating emissions and inventory results
is available in chapter 11.
8.3.5 Collecting primary data
To achieve conformance with this standard, primary
data are collected for all processes2 under the ownership
or control of the reporting company. Primary data are
defined as data from specific processes in the studied
product’s life cycle. Direct emissions data and process
activity data can both be classified as primary data if they
meet the definition.
Examples of primary data include:
•Liters of fuel consumed by a process in the product’s
life cycle, either from a specific site or an average
across all production sites
•Kilowatt-hours consumed by a process from an
individual site or an average across sites
•Kilograms of material added to a process
•GHG emissions from the chemical reaction of a process
Companies typically do not have control over the source
of emission factors used to calculate the GHG emissions
associated with process activity data, even if the activity
data is primary. Therefore, the source of emission factor
has no bearing on the classification to meet the primary
As with data from other emission sources, companies
should select electricity emission factors that are
geographically specific to the electricity sources used
in the product inventory. When an electricity supplier
can deliver a supplier-specific emission factor and
these emissions are excluded from the regional
emission factor, the supplier’s electricity data should
be used. Otherwise, companies should use a regional
average emission factor for electricity to avoid
double counting.Box [8.3] Selecting electricity emission factorsQuality data are important to develop a useful
inventory report and to track reductions over time.
Therefore, the best type of data from suppliers:
•Are based on process-specific information, not
disaggregated site information from a corporate
inventory; and
•Provide sufficient supporting information to enable
users to understand how the data were gathered,
what calculation methodologies were used, and the
quality of inventory.
Guidance on how to collect supplier data and
develop a data collection strategy is available at
(www.ghgprotocol.org ).  Box [8.4]  Collecting supplier data

--- Page 55 of 148 ---