File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:25
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 166 of 226
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[111]CHAPTER 14 Setting Reduction Targets and Tracking Inventory Changes
guidanceStep 2:  Identify reduction opportunities
Companies can begin identifying potential emissions
reduction opportunities along the product’s life cycle
while creating the base inventory. These opportunities
can then be assessed based on the magnitude of the
reductions and the company’s level of influence. In
general, companies have the largest influence on
processes they control and therefore, a first step may be
to identify energy savings or fuel switching opportunities
within those processes.
In many cases the largest potential for improvement
comes from processes that are under the control of
suppliers and customers along the product’s life cycle.
To address these emissions, companies should identify
suppliers and customers to engage with, based on both
their level of influence and reduction potential. For use
and end-of-life processes, the company may determine
that improvements are influenced primarily by the design
of a product and less by the behaviors of customers. In
this case, companies should engage their product design
or research and development team.
Step 3:  Set a reduction target
A robust business strategy often includes setting
targets for revenues, sales, and other core business
indicators, as well as tracking performance against
those targets. Likewise, although performance tracking
a GHG product inventory over time can be done without
a reduction target, effective GHG management involves
setting a GHG target.
Companies should set a reduction target for the total
product’s life cycle to avoid the perception of cherry-
picking. In addition companies may also set individual
targets for stages or processes. A target should include
both a completion date and a target level - the numeric
value of the reduction target per unit of analysis (e.g.,
20 percent reduction). In general, companies should set
an ambitious target that reaches significantly beyond
business-as-usual. “Stretch goals” tend to drive greater
innovation and are seen as most credible by stakeholders.  
It is important to note that all reduction targets set for
a product inventory are made on the basis of the unit
of analysis, and the unit of analysis cannot change when comparing inventories over time. This means that if an
improvement made along the product’s life cycle changes
its unit of analysis, then a new inventory is completed and
the company needs to redefine the base inventory and
reduction goal based on the new unit of analysis.
Step 4:  Achieve and account for reductions
Companies may achieve reductions in different ways, such
as working within the company to improve the processing
or design of the product or engaging with customers