File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 50 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mobile equipment, stationary combustion,
and refrigeration and air-conditioning
systems
Non-mechanical
sources Enteric fermentation, soil N 2O emissions,
and manure management.  
CO 2 emissions from
land use change  CO 2 emissions from the conversion of 
forests into ranchland or the conversion of
wetlands into croplands
    Scope 2 Purchased energy Purchased electricity 
    Scope 3 
(optional) All other indirect
sources  Production of agrichemicals and purchased 
feed
Biogenic
Carbon Land use management  CO 2 fluxes to/from C stocks in soils, above- 
and below-ground woody biomass, and DOM stocks, and the combustion of crop residues for non-energy purposes
C sequestration due to
land use change  CO 2 removals by soils and biomass 
following afforestation or reforestation  
Biofuel combustion  Combustion of  biodiesel in farm machinery 
Additional
information  A reference or link to the calculation methodologies used  
 Description of whether these me thodologies are IP CC Tier 1, 2, or
3
 Description of the methodol ogy used to amortize the CO 2 fluxes
 Assumptions regarding the use of  proxy data in calculating the 
impacts of historical LUC on C stocks  

Box 9-1.   Defining land-use change 
To determine when LUC has occurred and to ensure LUC impacts are accounted for consistently across inventories, companies should use a consistent set of definitions for land use categories over time. Currently, th ere is no single intern ationally accepted
standard for land use classifi cation – different countries a nd international organizations
have developed their own sets of definiti ons. Companies may find it simpler to use a
country-specific classification system shoul d their operations occu r within a single
country. Companies with agricultural operations  in multiple countries may instead find it 

--- Page 73 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

73
 easier to use internationally  recognized classification systems (e.g., the EU’s CORINE 
system). A simplified set of land use categories is shown below.    LUC occurs when land is converted fr om one land use category to another
13; for instance,
when cropland is converted to grassland or when forests are converted to cropland. On
occasion, the same area of land might be used  to support multiple agricultural activities 
and so meet the definitions for different land-use categories. For instance, savannah
woodland might be used both to graze livesto ck and as a source of wood fuel. In such
cases, companies should categorize the land based on the agricultural activity that is economically most important .  

Land use
category Definition
Forest land An area of high concentra tion of woody biomass. Typically defined
on the basis of a minimum tree height and canopy cover. Forests lands include plantations, primary fo rests, and naturally regenerated
forests with evidence of human intervention   
Cropland Includes rice fields and agro-forestry systems.
Grassland Managed grasslands , rangelands, pasture land.
Wetland Areas of peat extraction and land that is covered or saturated by water
for all or part of the year (e.g., pe atlands) and that does not fall into
other categories.
Settlements All developed land (e.g., roads, buildings, etc.).

9.3 Additional information that may be reported
Besides the required and best practice reporting elements, companies may wish to report
other information to enhance the transparency  and relevance of thei r inventories. This 
information includes:
 Data on the size of C stocks (in metric tonnes C per unit land area)
 Biogenic CO
2 flux data further subdivided by th e type of C stock (e.g., DOM versus
biomass stocks)
 Other GHG flux data further subdivided by the type of non-mechanical source (e.g.,
enteric fermentation versus manure management)

13 This Guidance follows the ‘land-based’ approach for recognizing LUC, as opposed to an ‘activities-
based’ approach. Land-based approaches assess the net emissions of select land-use categories while
activity-based approaches as sess the net emissions of select land-use activities. Both approaches can be
used for developing national GHG inventories for the UNFCCC.  

--- Page 74 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance