File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:26
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 85 of 108
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

77
Appendix I: Performance metrics
The Corporate Standard and this Guidance only require the reporting of absolute GHG
flux data. GHG performance metrics do not have to be reported. However, they can provide important insights  into a company’s GHG performance and are generally 
recommended as part of an effective GHG reporting and management system. For instance, they can be used to:
 Evaluate performance over time (e.g., compare figures from different years, identify
trends in data, and show performance in  relation to targets and base periods). 
 Improve comparability between different sizes of operations by normalizing figures
(e.g., by assessing the impact of differently sized operations on the same scale).  
This Appendix:
 Summarizes the various types of GH G performance metrics that exist.
 Provides general recommendations for the calcula tion, use, and reporting of metrics.   
Types and usage of performance metrics

Many types of performance metrics exist
Some examples of performance metrics are:  
Productivity and efficiency rati os: These express the value or achievement of a company
divided by its GHG impact. Increasing effici ency ratios therefore reflect a positive
performance improvement. Examples of producti vity/efficiency ratios include resource
productivity ratios (e.g., sales per GHG) and process eco-efficiency ratios (e.g.,
production volume per amount of GHG).  Intensity ratios: Intensity (or ‘normalized ’) ratios express GHG impact per unit of 
physical activity or unit of economic output. A physical intensity ratio is suitable when
aggregating or comparing across businesses that have similar products. In turn, an
economic intensity ratio is suitable when a ggregating or comparing across businesses that
produce different products. A declining intens ity ratio reflects a positive performance
improvement. Examples of intensity ratio s include product inte nsity (e.g., tonnes of
emissions per unit of sold livestock or crops generated) and sales intensity (e.g.,
emissions per sales).  When calculating intensity ratios companies may have to allocate  
GHG fluxes amongst different product streams (see below).   Percentages: A percentage indicator is a ra tio between two similar variables (with the 
same physical unit in the numerator and the de nominator). Examples of percentages that
can be meaningful in performance reports include current GHG fluxes expressed as a
percentage of base  year GHG fluxes. 
In selecting a performance metric, companies should consider which metrics best capture
the benefits and impacts of their business (e .g., its operations, its produ cts, and its effects
on the marketplace), as well as  its intended application.