File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 34 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

lack of data for an acquired company), the recalculation
may be carried out in the following year.2
Recalculations for changes in calculation
methodology or improvements in data accuracy
A company might report the same sources of GHG emis-
sions as in previous years, but measure or calculatethem differently. For example, a company might haveused a national electric power generation emissionsfactor to estimate scope 2 emissions in year one ofreporting. In later years, it may obtain more accurateutility-specific emission factors (for the current as wellas past years) that better reflect the GHG emissionsassociated with the electricity that it has purchased. If the differences in emissions resulting from such achange are significant, historic data is recalculatedapplying the new data and/or methodology.
Sometimes the more accurate data input may not reason-
ably be applied to all past years or new data points maynot be available for past years. The company may thenhave to backcast these data points, or the change in datasource may simply be acknowledged without recalcula-tion. This acknowledgement should be made in the reporteach year in order to enhance transparency; otherwise,new users of the report in the two or three years after thechange may make incorrect assumptions about theperformance of the company.
Any changes in emission factor or activity data that
reflect real changes in emissions (i.e., changes in fueltype or technology) do not trigger a recalculation.
Optional reporting for recalculations
Optional information that companies may report onrecalculations includes:
The recalculated GHG emissions data for all years
between the base year and the reporting year
All actual emissions as reported in respective years in
the past, i.e., the figures that have not been recalcu-lated. Reporting the original figures in addition to therecalculated figures contributes to transparency sinceit illustrates the evolution of the company’s structureover time. No base year emissions recalculations
for facilities that did not exist in the base year
Base year emissions are not recalculated if the company
makes an acquisition of (or insources) operations thatdid not exist in its base year. There may only be a recal-culation of historic data back to the year in which theacquired company came into existence. The same appliesto cases where the company makes a divestment of (oroutsources) operations that did not exist in the base year.
Figure 8 illustrates a situation where no recalculation of
base year emissions is required, since the acquiredfacility came into existence after the base year was set.
No recalculation for “ outsourcing/insourcing”  
if reported under scope 2 and/or scope 3
Structural changes due to “outsourcing” or “insourcing”
do not trigger base year emissions recalculation if thecompany is reporting its indirect emissions from relevantoutsourced or insourced activities. For example,outsourcing production of electricity, heat, or steamdoes not trigger base year emissions recalculation, sincethe
GHG Protocol Corporate Standard requires scope 2
reporting. However, outsourcing/insourcing that shiftssignificant emissions between scope 1 and scope 3 whenscope 3 is not reported does trigger a base year emis-sions recalculation (e.g., when a company outsourcesthe transportation of products).
In case a company decides to track emissions over time
separately for different scopes, and has separate baseyears for each scope, base year emissions recalculationfor outsourcing or insourcing is made. GUIDANCETracking Emissions Over Time
CHAPTER 5 38TheGHG Protocol Corporate Standard requires setting a base year for
comparing emissions over time. To be able to compare over time, thebase year emissions must be recalculated if any structural changesoccur in the company. In a deal completed January 2002, theENDESA Group, a power generation company based in Spain, sold its87.5 percent holding in Viesgo, a part of its Spanish power genera-tion business, to ENEL, an Italian power company. To account for thisstructural change, historical emissions from the six power plantsincluded in the sale were no longer accounted for in the Endesa GHGinventory and therefore removed from its base year emissions. Thisrecalculation provides ENDESA with a complete and comparablepicture of its historical emissions. ENDESA: Recalculation of base year
emissions because of structural changes

--- Page 41 of 116 ---