File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 53 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard focuses on
accounting and reporting for GHG emissions at thecompany or organizational level. Reductions in corpo-rate emissions are calculated by comparing changes in the company’s actual emissions inventory over timerelative to a base year. Focusing on overall corporateor organizational level emissions has the advantage ofhelping companies manage their aggregate GHG risksand opportunities more effectively. It also helps focusresources on activities that result in the most cost-effective GHG reductions.
In contrast to corporate accounting, the forthcoming
GHG Protocol Project Quantification Standard focuses on
the quantification of GHG reductions from GHG miti-gation projects that will be used as offsets. Offsets arediscrete GHG reductions used to compensate for (i.e.,offset) GHG emissions elsewhere, for example to meeta voluntary or mandatory GHG target or cap. Offsetsare calculated relative to a baseline that represents a hypothetical scenario for what emissions would havebeen in the absence of the project.
Corporate GHG reductions
at facility or country level
From the perspective of the earth's atmosphere, it does not
matter where GHG emissions or reductions occur. Fromthe perspective of national and international policymakersaddressing global warming, the location where GHGreductions are achieved is relevant, since policies usuallyfocus on achieving reductions within specific countriesor regions, as spelled out, for example, in the KyotoProtocol. Thus companies with global operations willhave to respond to an array of state, national, or regionalregulations and requirements that address GHGs fromoperations or facilities within a specific geographic area.
The
GHG Protocol Corporate Standard calculates GHG
emissions using a bottom-up approach. This involvescalculating emissions at the level of an individual sourceor facility and then rolling this up to the corporate level.Thus a company’s overall emissions may decrease, evenif increases occur at specific sources, facilities, or opera-tions and vice-versa. This bottom-up approach enablescompanies to report GHG emissions information atdifferent scales, e.g., by individual sources or facilities,or by a collection of facilities within a given country.Companies can meet an array of government require-ments or voluntary commitments by comparing actualemissions over time for the relevant scale. On a corpo-rate-wide scale, this information can also be used when
setting and reporting progress towards a corporate-wideGHG target (see chapter 11).
In order to track and explain changes in GHG emissions
over time, companies may find it useful to provide information on the nature of these changes. Forexample, BP asks each of its reporting units to providesuch information in an accounting movement formatusing the following categories (BP 2000):
Acquisitions and divestments
Closure
Real reductions (e.g., efficiency improvements,
material or fuel substitution)
Change in production level
Changes in estimation methodology
Other
This type of information can be summarized at the
corporate level to provide an overview of the company’sperformance over time.  
Reductions in indirect emissions
Reductions in indirect emissions (changes in scope 2 or 3emissions over time) may not always capture the actualemissions reduction accurately. This is because there isnot always a direct cause-effect relationship between theactivity of the reporting company and the resulting GHGemissions. For example, a reduction in air travel wouldreduce a company’s scope 3 emissions. This reduction isusually quantified based on an average emission factorof fuel use per passenger. However, how this reductionactually translates into a change in GHG emissions tothe atmosphere would depend on a number of factors,including whether another person takes the “empty seat”or whether this unused seat contributes to reduced airtraffic over the longer term. Similarly, reductions in scope 2 emissions calculated with an average gridemissions factor may over- or underestimate the actualreduction depending on the nature of the grid.
Generally, as long as the accounting of indirect emissions
over time recognizes activities that in aggregate changeglobal emissions, any such concerns over accuracyshould not inhibit companies from reporting their indi-rect emissions. In cases where accuracy is moreimportant, it may be appropriate to undertake a moreCHAPTER 8 Accounting for GHG Reductions 59GUIDANCE

--- Page 62 of 116 ---