File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 12 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

trade - offs between GHG emissions reductions and other environmental imp acts of a given farming practice . 1 . 4 Who should use this Guidance ? This Guidance is primarily intended for produc ers and companies that seek to develop scope 1 and 2 inventories of their agricultur al operations ( Box 1 - 1 ) . Examples include fruit and crop growers , ranchers , and biof uel producers . While producers with small agricultural operations may find it difficult to devote the resources to use this Guidance , it is applicable to operations of all sizes .

Box 1-1.  The concept of scopes 
 Under the Corporate Standard emi ssions sources are categorized as direct  or indirect  and 
then further divided into ‘scopes’:   
 Direct sources: Owned or controlled by the reporting company. All direct sources are
classified as scope 1 .  
 Indirect sources: Owned or controlled by another company, but a portion of whose
emissions are a consequence of the activi ties of the reporting company. Indirect
sources are either scope 2  or scope 3 : scope 2 emissions stem from the generation of 
electricity, heat, or steam that is purch ased by the reporting company, while scope 3
emissions are all other indirect emissions.   
The focus of this Guidance is on including sc ope 1 and scope 2 sources in inventories,
although certain scope 3 sources ar e also discussed because they are highly emitting.     

--- Page 10 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

10

Other users
This Guidance will be helpful to downstream or upstream companies that seek to
understand their value chain GHG impacts fr om agriculture. Down stream companies
include processors (e.g., slaughterhouses and biofuel makers), brand manufacturers that
make packaged food products, and retailers th at make private label food products, while
upstream companies include manufacturers of fa rm inputs, such as seeds, fertilizers,
herbicides, and pesticides. Agricultural emissions will often form a substantial part of the scope 3 inventories of these companies and will  fall into the Scope 3 Standard’s Category 
1 (Purchased Goods and Services) and Category 11 (Use of Sold Products) for
downstream and upstream companies, respec tively. Companies completing a value chain
assessment should consult the Scope 3 Standa rd for additional requirements and guidance
on including agriculture in  their inventories.  
  GHG reporting programs and policy makers may also  be interested in incorporating this 
Guidance into their policy or program design.   Many companies in other sectors also have  land-based GHG fluxes. Examples include 
the construction, mining, and utility sectors.  While this Guidance is likely broadly 
applicable to these sectors, it has not been evaluated for use outside of the agricultural
sector.   
1.5 Relationship between this Guidance and the Corporate
Standard  
The Corporate Standard outlines requirements and/or guidance on a range of topics,
ranging from inventory desi gn to tracking emissions over time. This Guidance
summarizes and customizes most of this c ontent to the agricultural sector, adding
additional recommendations in many areas. However, this Guidance does not include
guidance on inventory verificati on and target setting, and on othe r topics that are included
in the Corporate Standard, but not relevant to  the sector. For such guidance, users should 
consult the Corporate Standard. Table 1-2 maps  the content of this Guidance onto that of 
the Corporate Standard, while Table 1-3 summarizes the main recommendations made in
this Guidance.   Note that, under the Corporate Standard, companies must report emissions of at least the seven Kyoto  GHGs , which are: carbon dioxide (CO
2), methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide
(N2O), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), hydrofluorocar bons (HFCs), sulphur hexaflouride (SF 6),
and nitrogen triflouride (NF 3). This same principle applies to companies using this
Guidance. However, agricultural activities ty pically generate only a subset of these
GHGs (see Chapter 4).    

--- Page 11 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance