File Name: 2_E1_2021-06-30_VO_2021_1119_EUKG_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:55
Original Size: 0.54 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 26 of 31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(b) the collective progress made by all Member States on adaptation as refer red to in Article 5 of this Regulation.
The Commission shall submit the conclusions of that assessment, together with the State of the Energy Union repor t
prepared in the respective calendar year in accordance with Article 35 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1999, to the European
Parliament and to the Council.
2. By 30 Sept ember 2023 , and ever y five years thereaf ter, the Commission shall review :
(a) the consistency of Union measures with the climate -neutrality objective set out in Article 2(1);
(b) the consistency of Union measures with ensur ing progress on adapta tion as refer red to in Article 5.
3. Where, based on the assessments refer red to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the Commission finds that Union
measures are inconsistent with the climate -neutrality objective set out in Article 2(1) or inconsist ent with ensur ing progress
on adaptation as referred to in Article 5, or that the progress towards that climate-neutrality objective or on adaptation as
refer red to in Article 5 is insufficient, it shall take the necessar y measures in accordance with the Treaties.
4. The Commission shall assess the consistency of any draf t measure or legislative proposal, including budgetary
proposals, with the climate -neutrality objective set out in Article 2(1) and the Union 2030 and 2040 climate targe ts before
adoptio n, and include that assessment in any impact assessment accompan ying these measures or proposals, and make the
result of that assessment publicly available at the time of adoptio n. The Commission shall also assess whether those draf t
measures or legislative proposals, including budgetary proposals, are consiste nt with ensur ing progress on adap tation as
refer red to in Article 5. When making its draf t measures and legislative proposals, the Commission shall endeav our to
align them with the objectives of this Regulation. In any case of non-alignment, the Commission shall provid e the reasons
as part of the consistency assessment referred to in this paragraph.
Article 7
Assessment of national measures
1. By 30 Sept ember 2023 , and ever y five years thereaf ter, the Commission shall assess:
(a) the consiste ncy of national measures identif ied, on the basis of the integrated national energy and climat e plans,
national long-ter m strategies and the biennial progress repor ts submitted in accordance with Regulation (EU)
2018/1999, as relevant for the achi evement of the climate -neutrality objective set out in Article 2(1) of this Regulation
with that objective;
(b) the consistency of relevant national measures with ensur ing progress on adap tation as refer red to in Article 5, taking
into account the national adapt ation strateg ies referred to in Article 5(4).
The Commission shall submit the conclusions of that assessment, together with the State of the Energy Union repor t
prepared in the respective calendar year in accordance with Article 35 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1999, to the European
Parliament and to the Council.
2. Where the Commission finds, after due consideration of the collective progress assessed in accordance with Article
6(1), that a Member State’s measures are inconsistent with the climate-neutrality objective set out in Article 2(1) or
inconsiste nt with ensur ing progress on adap tation as refer red to in Article 5, it may issue recommendations to that
Member State. The Commission shall mak e such recommendations publicly available.
3. Where recommendations are issued in accordance with paragraph 2, the following principles shall apply:
(a) the Member State concer ned shall, within six months of receipt of the recommendations, notify the Commission on
how it intends to take due account of the recommendations in a spirit of solidar ity between Member States and the
Union and between Member States;EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Union L 243/12                                                                                                                                           9.7.2021  

--- Page 13 of 17 ---