File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 11 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8
  Carbon (C) sequestration  and accounting for changes in the management and 
ownership of different carbon pools .  
 The fact that agricultural activities do not immediatel y result in GHG fluxes (e.g.,
delayed emissions from decomposition of post-harvest detritus).
 The types of organizational structures  and operational practices specific to 
agriculture.
This Guidance outlines recommended methodolog ies to address these and other issues
important to the sector, while  incorporating requirements in the Corporate Standard. 
Because the agricultural sector is highly di verse, this Guidance aims to establish a
common framework that is applicable to the myriad subsectors within agriculture. This
Guidance can largely be used on its own fo r developing GHG invent ories. However, it
does not address certain topics covered by the Corporate Standard, such as the
verification of GHG inventor ies or setting of GHG reduc tion targets (see Chapter 1.5).
  The specific objectives of  this Guidance are to:  
 Increase consistency and transparency in GHG accounting  and reporting within the 
agricultural sector.  
 Help companies cost-effectively prepare GHG inventories that are true and fair
accounts of their climate impact.  
 Enable GHG inventories to meet the d ecision-making needs of both internal
management and external stakeholders (e.g., investors) and so provide for the more
effective management of agricultural GHG fluxes.  

What does this Guidance not do?  
This Guidance is squarely focused on corpor ate- or farm-level accounting and reporting
issues and:
 Does not advance methods for projec t- or product-level GHG accounting (e.g.,
product category rules).  
 Does not provide accounting methods for indirect Land Use Change  (iLUC). iLUC 
occurs when an existing crop is diverted for another purpose, such as transportation
fuel production, and replacement crops are then grown on formerly non-agricultural lands. An example of iLUC is when sugar cane is diverted from sugar to biofuel
production, causing forests to be cleare d for additional sugarcane production.
Accounting for such iLUC impacts requires a project-based approach to determine
what the GHG fluxes would have been in th e absence of the mark et intervention. The
Project Protocol provides general, high-le vel guidance that can help inform how to
account for iLUC impacts.   
 Does not require sector-specific GHG perfor mance metrics. The choice of a metric
has to be guided by a company’s objectives  in developing an inventory and by the 
specific operations and sources that char acterize that company. (Appendix I provides
an overview of the advantages and disadvant ages of different types of metrics.)  
 Does not require specific methods or t ools for calculating agricultural GHG fluxes.
 Does not provide guidance on the selection and deployment of GHG mitigation
practices on farms.  

--- Page 9 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

9
 Does not address environmental impacts ot her than GHG fluxes, such as water use,
eutrophication, and emissions of air pollu tants. Consequently, this Guidance cannot
be used by itself to evaluate the po ssible trade-offs between GHG emissions
reductions and other environmental imp acts of a given farming practice.  

1.4 Who should use this Guidance?
This Guidance is primarily intended for produc ers and companies that seek to develop
scope 1 and 2 inventories of their agricultur al operations (Box 1-1). Examples include
fruit and crop growers, ranchers, and biof uel producers. While producers with small
agricultural operations may find it difficult to devote the resources to use this Guidance,
it is applicable to operations of all sizes.