File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 46 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[57]
CHAPTER 08 Collecting Data and Assessing Data Quality
guidancecriteria results as a basis for collecting new data or when
using the results in an uncertainty assessment. (See
chapter 10 for requirements and guidance on uncertainty.)
When companies do not know the uncertainty of
individual data points in the inventory they may use the
data quality indicator scores to estimate the level of
uncertainty. For information on this approach see chapter
10. Additional uncertainty calculation guidance and tools
are available at ( www.ghgprotocol.org ).
8.3.8  Reporting on data quality  
for significant processes
Companies are required to report on the data sources,
data quality, and efforts to improve data quality for
significant processes. Table 8.3 provides an example  
of reporting on data sources, quality, and improvement
efforts for a significant process. The criteria included  
in the screening steps can be helpful to identify
significant processes.
8.3.9 Additional data quality considerations
In addition to the data quality indicators in table 8.1,
companies should consider the following quality
considerations:Allocated data
Data that has been collected to avoid allocation are
preferable to data that require allocation. For example,
with other data quality indicators being roughly equal,
data gathered at the process level that does not need
to be allocated is preferable to facility-level data that
needs to be allocated between the studied product and
other facility outputs. For requirements and guidance on
performing allocation see chapter 9.
Data transparency
Companies should have enough information to assess
the data with the data quality indicators. If there is not
enough information on the collection procedures, quality
controls, and relevant data assumptions, companies
should use that data only if no other data of sufficient
quality is available.
Uncertainty
Data with high uncertainty can negatively impact the
overall quality of the inventory. More information on
uncertainty is available in chapter 10.Table [8.3] Example of reporting on data sources, quality, and improvement efforts for a significant process
Significant
process nameData sources Data quality Efforts	to	improve 	
data quality
Fruit product transport
from distribution  
center to retail store Activity Data: Average
kilometers traveled for
produce in Germany
Source: Trucking  
Association
Emission Factor: U.K.  
Defra’s Freight TransportThe activity data
does not reflect the
product’s actual
transport distance or
our company’s shipping
efficiency practices.
The transport emis -
sion factor is specific to
United Kingdom trans -
port operations and not
specific to Germany’s
transportation system
(poor geographic  
indicator score).We are working to
improve our internal
data collection efforts
on product distance
traveled to obtain
country-specific
emission factors for
truck transport.

--- Page 60 of 148 ---