File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 36 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

51
 using industry-average data, LCA studies of  different food or bi ofuel products, or 
rough estimates).
2. Rank all sources from largest to smallest according to their estimated GHG
fluxes. Removals should be listed as abso lute values (i.e. no negative sign) to
allow the proper identification of significant sinks.
3. Apply a pre-determined, percentage cumu lative threshold. Key sources are then
those that together add up to a certai n percentage of the overall emissions (e.g.,
key sources are cumulatively respon sible for 70% of GHG fluxes).  
Trends in magnitude are also us eful for identifying key sources In addition to ranking
sources for a given inventory period, it may al so be useful to rank sources based on the
percentage change in fluxes over time (e .g., between the base period and the latest
inventory period), if da ta are available.  

Percentage	change		in	GHG	flux
ൌlatest inventory estimat eെbase period estimate
absolute	value	of	base	period	estimateݔ100%  

This analysis is helpful because it can identify  sources whose trend is different from that 
of the overall inventory. Companies may choos e not to invest addi tional resources in
estimating emissions that show a declini ng trend (or sequestra tion that shows an
increasing trend), especially if these trends result from the introduction of mitigation
measures. However, prioritizing these sour ces is still recommended to help ensure
inventories reflect mitigation efforts as much as possible. Companies may likewise chose to invest more in categories whose fluxes show large increases.     

Companies  should not exclude small or highly uncertain emissions sources  
In general, companies should not exclude required emissions sources from their
inventories as a result of uncertainty. Instea d, to ensure the relevance and completeness
of the inventory, companies may decide to use a less accurate approach for emissions
sources that are expected to be relatively less significant, as long as the inventory is
transparent about the limitations  of the calculation approach es used (see Chapter 9). For 
instance, while fuel use will often comprise a small share of the inventory of a ranching operation, it should still be in cluded in the inventory, but  may be estimated based on 
simplified assumptions.   Can ‘materiality thresholds’ be used? Th ese are minimum GHG accounting thresholds 
that state that when a given source is sma ller than the threshold size it can be omitted
from the inventory. Although it appears useful in theory, the practic al implementation of
such a threshold is not compatible with the completeness principle of this Guidance. In order to use a materiality threshold, the emi ssions from a particular source or activity
would have to be quantified to ensure th ey were under the threshold. However, once
emissions are quantified, mo st of the benefit of ha ving a threshold is lost.

--- Page 52 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance