File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:16
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 153 of 225
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TYPE OF TARGET
Reduce absolute emissions
MP: not normally constrained
Reduce GHG intensity
Improve BPE
(efficiency)
Improve PE
(efficiency)LEVEL OF DECISION-MAKING
(IN GENERAL AND ON TARGET)
Corporate
All levels depending on scale
(e.g. new venture, new plant, operational)
Business in consultation with corporate
Business
Business
Facility, supported by Shell Global Solutions EnergiseTMCHAPTER 11 Setting a GHG Target 77GUIDANCEThe Royal Dutch/Shell Group, a global energy corporation, discovered when implementing its voluntary GHG reduction target that one of
the biggest challenges was to cascade the target down to the actions of all employees who influence target performance. It was concluded
that successful implementation required different targets at different levels of the company. This is because each of the compo nents that
underlie absolute GHG emissions is influenced by decision-making at various management levels (from the corporate level down to  indi-
vidual businesses and facilities).
Absolute GHG emissions at a plant (tonnes of CO2-e.)  =  Function (MP x  BPE x PE)
MP Quantity of product manufactured by a facility. This is fundamental to the need to grow and is therefore controlled at corporat e
level. GHG emissions are typically not managed by limiting this component.
BPE Best process energy use per tonne. The optimal (or theoretical) energy consumed (translates to emissions) by a particular
design of plant. The type of plant built is a business-level decision. Significant capital decisions may be involved in buildin g a
new plant incorporating new technology. For existing plants, BPE is improved by significant design change and retrofitting. Thi s
could also involve large capital expenditure.
PE Plant efficiency index. An index that indicates how the plant is actually performing relative to BPE. PE is a result of day-to- day
decisions taken by plant operators and technicians. It is improved also by the Shell Global Solutions EnergiseTM programme,
which typically requires low capital expenditure to implement.
Royal Dutch/Shell found that while this model is probably an oversimplification when it comes to exploration and production fac ilities, it
is suitable for manufacturing facilities (e.g., refineries and chemical plants). It illustrates that an absolute target could o nly be set at the
corporate level, while lower levels require intensity or efficiency targets. Royal Dutch/Shell: The target cascade
ACTIONS THAT
REDUCE EMISSIONS
See below
--------
See below
Building new plants
with new technology
Retrofitting and changing
design of plants
Increase plant
operating efficiency
2.  Decide on the target type
There are two broad types of GHG targets: absolute and