File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 39 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Box 7-1.  IPCC Methodologies for Nationa l GHG Emissions Inventories 
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has developed a comprehensive
set of methodologies - the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories*  - to guide the preparation of national inventories. Many of the tools listed in 
Appendix III rely on some portion of these Gu idelines, especially the default emission
factors and calculation formulae.   The Guidelines define three general tiers of  methodologies based on their complexity and 
data requirements. The choice of tier de pends, in part, on the significance of the
emissions sources under consideration.  
 Tier 1: Simple, emission factor-based approach. Tier 1 emission factors are
international defaults, although they will of ten have been based on studies conducted
in a select few (mostly  temperate) countries. 
 Tier 2: More region-specific  emission factors or more refined empirical estimation 
methodologies.
 Tier 3: Dynamic bio-geophysical simulation models using multi-year time series and
context-specific parameterization.
These tiers provide a useful means for cate gorizing and understanding the likely accuracy
of the different calculation me thods that are available. In general, Tier 3 methods are
considered most accurate and Ti er 1 methods least accurate.   

* http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/   

--- Page 55 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

55
 Table 7-4.  Summary of approaches for calculating th e GHG fluxes to / from non-mechanical sources  
Approach Advantages Disadvantages
Field measurements. This
category includes lab measurements of soil C   Potentially highly accurate, but depends on 
sampling intensity
 Implicitly capture the impacts of multiple,
simultaneous farming practices (assuming multiple
sources are measured)  High capacity requir ements for technical know-how and equipment
 Limited to measurable variables
 Time-consuming
 Expensive, even if the measuremen t technologies are relatively low
cost, because of need for many samples
 Do not by themselves distinguish between the effects of anthropogenic
factors and environmental factors
Emission factors.  Quantify 
the GHG flux as a function
of farming activity (e.g.,
tonnes CO 2 emitted per ha
of farmland)  Inexpensive  
 Easy to use
 Low accuracy, but depends on specific ity of the emission factor to
field conditions
 May not be sensitive to many changes in environment or management
regimes (e.g., new animal genotype, different method of applying fertilizer, different animal feed composition, etc.)
 Do not capture the GHG impacts of multiple, simultaneous farming
practices
Empirical models.
Constructed from statistical
relationships between empirical GHG data (e.g.,
existing inventory data or
yield curves) and management factors   Inexpensive 
 Low to medium accuracy
 Easy to use
 May not be sensitive to changes in environment or management
regimes, especially at finer spatial scales
 Do not capture the GHG impacts of multiple, simultaneous farming
practices
Process-oriented models.  
Mathematical
representations of the biogeochemical processes
that drive GHG fluxes  Medium to high accuracy, depending on the realism
of the model and the availability of calibrating data
 Can represent many different combinations of
management practices and environmental
conditions, and so may allow the GHG effects of
relatively subtle changes in management practices
to be quantified
 Designed for use at fine spatial scales
 Can be run at coarser spatial scales to help average
out uncertainty, if calibrating background data are
not available at the farm level (as is the case in many developing countries)  Require vast background datasets (e.g., multi-decadal weather series,
biomass partitioning parameters, etc.) that may not be available for
specific regions. Also require exte nsive farm-level data (e.g., on
seeding and harvesting dates).  
 High capacity requiremen ts for technical know-how
 Time-consuming and expensive to run and develop/calibrate

--- Page 56 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance