File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 19 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GHG accounting and reporting shall be base d on the following principles:  
  Relevance:  The GHG inventory shall appropriate ly reflect the GHG fluxes of the 
company and serve the decision-making needs of users – both internal and external to the
company.   Completeness:  Companies shall account for and re port on all GHG emission sources and 
activities within the inventory boundary, to the extent pr acticable and relevant to the
purpose of the inventory. Any specific exclus ions shall be disclosed and justified.  
 Consistency:  Companies shall use consistent me thodologies to allow for meaningful 
performance tracking and comparison of GHG flux data over time, business units,
geographies or suppliers.   Transparency:  Companies shall address all relevant issues in a factual and coherent 
manner, based on a clear audit trail. Comp anies shall also disclose any relevant
assumptions and make appropriate refe rences to the accounting and calculation
methodologies and data sources used.  Accuracy:  Companies shall ensure that estimates  of GHG fluxes are as accurate as 
possible and that they are not sy stematically over or under actu al fluxes, as far as can be
judged. A level of accuracy is needed that will allow users to make decisions with
reasonable confidence as to the inte grity of the reported information.  
The accuracy of GHG flux data is a part icular concern for many agricultural GHG
sources, including C stocks, soils, and enteri c fermentation (see Chapter 7). Reporting on
measures taken to ensure accuracy and improve  accuracy over time can help promote the 
credibility and enhance the tr ansparency of inventories.
In practice, companies may encounter trade-o ffs between principles when completing an
inventory. In particular, a co mpany may find that achieving th e most complete inventory
requires the use of less accurate data, compromising overall accuracy. Conversely,

--- Page 23 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

23
achieving the most accurate inventory may requi re the exclusion of activities with low
accuracy, compromising overall completeness.   Companies should balance tradeoffs between  principles depending on their individual 
business goals. For instance, relatively less accurate data may be appropriate for the
initial evaluation of GHG reduction opportunitie s, whereas more accurate data may be
required to track progress toward  a specific GHG reduction target.  

--- Page 24 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance