File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 66 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[82]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidancestandard scenario uncertainty is created. Methodological
choices include but are not limited to:
•Allocation methods
•Product use assumptions
•End-of-life assumptions
To identify the influence of these selections on results,
parameters (or combinations of parameters) are varied in
an exercise known as scenario analysis. Scenario analysis is
also commonly called sensitivity analysis. Scenario analysis
can reveal differences in the inventory results due to
methodological choices.3
EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1
A company may choose to allocate facility electricity
consumption between the toner production and other
production lines using the physical allocation factor of the
number of units produced. Using this factor, 30 percent of the
electricity consumption is allocated to the toner production
process. However, allocating the electricity by the mass of
products results in 40 percent of the electricity consumption
allocated to the toner production process.
EXAMPLE 2
Company data indicates that 40 percent of the toner
cartridges are recycled. Therefore, it can be assumed that
40 percent of the plastic in the cartridge’s casing is recycled.
For both the reporting company and stakeholders, it may be
interesting to consider how a change in the overall recycling
rate would change the inventory results. From an individual
consumer’s perspective, there might be interest in how the
inventory results would change when an individual recycles
(100 percent rather than 40 percent recycling) or does not
recycle (0 percent recycling) the cartridge.
Model uncertainty
Model uncertainty arises from limitations in the ability of
the modeling approaches used to reflect the real world.
Simplifying the real world into a numeric model always
introduces some inaccuracies.
In many cases, model uncertainties can be represented–
at least in part–through the parameter or scenario
approaches described above. However, some aspects
of model uncertainty might not be captured by those
classifications and are otherwise very difficult to quantify. EXAMPLE
A model of soy production is involved in predicting emissions
from the production of the cartridge’s soy-based ink. Emissions
of N2O due to application of nitrogen fertilizers are based on a
linear modeling of interactions of the fertilizer with the soil and
plant systems. As these interactions are more complicated than
the model assumes, there is uncertainty regarding the emissions
resulting from this model.
10.3.3 Reporting qualitative uncertainty
Companies are required to report a qualitative description
of uncertainty sources and methodological choices
made in the inventory. These include the use and end-
of-life profiles for cradle-to-grave inventories, allocation
methods (including recycling allocation methods), the
source of GWP used, and any calculation models used to
quantify emissions and removals.
Quantitative uncertainty assessment is not required,
but such an assessment is desirable since it can provide
a more robust result that can identify specific areas of
high uncertainty to track over time. Companies may wish
to present both qualitative and quantitative uncertainty
information in the inventory report. Companies may
also describe their efforts to reduce uncertainty in
future revisions of the inventory. Table 10.2 includes the
required qualitative uncertainty sources to report.
10.3.4 Uncertainty in comparisons
Comparative uncertainty differs from the various types
of uncertainty previously mentioned in that more than
one product or system is considered. This standard is
not intended to support product comparison beyond
performance tracking (as described in chapter 1).
However, even within a product inventory, comparative
uncertainty may arise, such as when comparing the
impact of one process or stage to another process or
stage in the product’s life cycle.
Whenever considering uncertainty in comparisons, the
uncertainty ranges of each process, life cycle stage, or
product should not be directly compared; instead, the
uncertainty in the comparison itself should be assessed.
That is, rather than comparing the distribution of A
and the distribution of B, companies may assess the
distribution of A divided by B.  This can be done for both 
parameter uncertainty and scenario uncertainty.

--- Page 85 of 148 ---