File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 20 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

24
 Chapter 4: Overview of agricultural emission sources  
Many different types of emission sources are as sociated with agriculture, such as fuel
use, soils, and manure management.  Unde rstanding the qualitative differences amongst 
these is crucial to many step s in inventory development, including calculating, reporting,
and undertaking the quality cont rol of GHG flux data.  
This chapter:
 Distinguishes between two types of emissions sources – mechanical  and non-
mechanical sources  – whose fluxes differ in fundamental ways, with important 
implications for GHG inventory development.
 Describes the variety and relative importance of thes e sources along agricultural
value chains.
4.1 Overview of agricultural sources
Figure 4-1 lists the princi pal emission sources found on farmland. An important
distinction for the agricultura l sector is between mechani cal and non-mechanical sources.
This is because agriculture re lies on biological systems, whose emissions or removals of
GHGs generally occur through much more complex mechanisms than the emissions from the mechanical equipment used on farmland.    Non-mechanical sources are either biologi cal processes shaped by climatic and soil 
conditions (e.g., decomposition) or the bur ning of crop residues. They are often
connected by complex patterns of N and C fl ows through farms. Non-mechanical sources
emit CO
2, CH 4 and N 2O (or precursors of these GHGs) through different routes. CO 2
fluxes are mostly controlled by uptake thr ough plant photosynthesis and releases via
respiration, decomposition and the combus tion of organic matter. In turn, N 2O emissions
result from nitrification  and denitrification (see Box 4-1), and CH 4 emissions result from 
methanogenesis under anaerobic conditions in  soils and manure storage, enteric 
fermentation, and the incomplete combustion of organic matter.  
Mechanical sources are equipment or mach inery operated on farms, such as mobile
machinery (e.g., harvesters), stationary equi pment (e.g., boilers), and refrigeration and
air-conditioning equipment.  These sources emit CO
2, CH 4, and N 2O, or HFCs and PFCs,
and their emissions are wholly  determined by the properties of the source equipment and 
material inputs (e.g., fuel composition).    

--- Page 25 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

25
 Figure 4-1.  Agricultural emissions sources  

Relative importance of diffe rent agricultural sources
Globally, non-mechanical sources are larger than mechanical sources (Figure 4-2; U.S.
EPA, 2006a), with enteric fermentation (CH 4) and soils (N 2O) being the largest sources
(U.S. EPA, 2006b). The exact contribu tion of agriculture to global CO 2 emissions is hard
to quantify. This is because the biomass and soil C pools not only emit large amounts of
CO 2, but also take up CO 2. Nevertheless, additional C sequestration offers most (~89%)
of the global emissions mitigation potential in agriculture (Smith et al., 2007b). Agriculture-driven LUC is also a globally important source of CO
2 emissions.  
At the farm scale, the relative magnitude of different emission sources and of different
GHGs will vary widely depending on the t ype of farm, management practices, and
natural factors at play. These factors incl ude original land cove r; farm topography and
hydrology; soil microbial density and ecology;  soil temperature, moisture, organic 
content and composition; crop or livestock  type; and land and waste management 
practices. Few studies have looked at the relati ve contribution of diffe rent sources to the
whole-farm inventories of diffe rent farming systems using a consistent set of methods. It
is difficult to accurately predict the relative  magnitude of different sources for a given 
farm. Nonetheless, certain broad patterns  can be expected (e.g., Figure 4-3).