File Name: 2_E1_2021-06-30_VO_2021_1119_EUKG_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:55
Original Size: 0.54 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 8 of 31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(17) The Union should continue its climate action and internatio nal climate leadership after 2050, in order to protect
people and the planet against the threat of dang erous climat e change, in pursuit of the long-t erm temperature goal
set out in the Paris Agreement and followi ng the scientific assessments of the IPCC, IPBES, and the European
Scientific Advisor y Board on Climate Change, as well as the assessments of other international bodies.
(18) The risk of carbon leakage remains in respect of those international partners that do not share the same standards of
climat e protection as those of the Union. The Commission theref ore intends to propose a carbon border adjustment
mechani sm for selected sectors , to reduce such risks in a way which is compatible with the rules of the World Trade
Org anization. Further more, it is impor tant to maintain effective policy incentives in suppor t of technological
solutions and innovati ons which enable the transition to a competitive climat e-neutral Union econom y, while
provid ing investment certainty .
(19) The European Parliament called, in its resolution of 15 Januar y 2020 on the European Green Deal, for the necessar y
transition to a climat e-neutral society by 2050 at the lates t and for this to be made into a European success story and
has, in its resolution of 28 November 2019 on the climat e and environment emergency , declared a climate and
environment emerg ency . It has also repeate dly called on the Union to increase its 2030 climat e target , and for that
increased target to be part of this Regulation. The European Council, in its conclusions of 12 December 2019 , has
agreed on the objective of achieving a climat e-neutral Union by 2050, in line with the objectives of the Paris
Agreement, while also recognising that it is necessar y to put in place an enabling framework that benefi ts all
Member States and encom passes adequate instr uments, incentives, suppor t and inve stments to ensure a cost-
efficient, just, as well as socially balanced and fair transition, taking into account diffe rent national circumstances in
term s of starting points. It also noted that the transition will require signif icant public and private investment. On
6 March 2020 , the Union submitted its long-t erm low greenhouse gas emission development strateg y and, on
17 December 2020 , its nationally deter mined contr ibution, to the United Nations Framew ork Convention on
Climate Change (UNFCCC), following their approval by the Council.
(20) The Union should aim to achieve a balance between anthropog enic econom y-wide emissions by sources and
remo vals by sinks of greenhouse gases domestically within the Union by 2050 and, as appropr iate, achi eve negat ive
emissions thereaf ter. That objective should encom pass Union-wide greenhouse gas emissions and remo vals
regulated in Union law. It should be possible to address such emissions and removals in the context of the review of
the relevant climat e and energy legislation. Sinks include natural and technological solutions, as repor ted in the
Union’s greenhouse gas invent ories to the UNFCCC. Solutions that are based on carbon capture and storag e (CCS)
and carbon captur e and use (CCU) technologies can play a role in decarbonisation, especially for the mitig ation of
process emissions in industr y, for the Member State s that choose this technology . The Union-wide 2050 climate-
neutrality objective should be pursued by all Member States collectively , and Member States, the European
Parliament, the Council and the Commission should take the necessar y measures to enable its achi evement.
Measures at Union level will constitute an impor tant part of the measures needed to achi eve the objective.
(21) In its conclusions of 8and 9 Marc h 2007 and of 23and 24 October 2014 , the European Council endorsed the
Union’s greenhouse gas emission reduction target for 2020 and the 2030 climate and energy policy framewor k,
respectively . The provisions of this Regulation on the deter mination of the Union’s climate target for 2040 are
without prejudice to the role of the European Council, as set out in the Treaties, in defining the Union’s general