File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 48 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[59]
CHAPTER 08 Collecting Data and Assessing Data Quality
guidance
Step 1:   Identify sources of low quality data in the 
product inventory using the data quality
assessment results.
Step 2:   Collect new data for the low quality data  
sources as resources allow. Sources with low
quality data that have also been identified as
significant through the screening process should
be given priority.  
Step 3:   Evaluate the new data. If it is of higher quality 
than the original data, use in its place. If the data
are not of higher quality, either use the existing
data or collect new data.
Step 4:  Repeat as necessary and as resources allow.
If companies change data sources in subsequent
inventories they should evaluate whether this change
creates the need to update the base inventory. (See
chapter 14 for more information.)Endnotes
1 UNEP and SETAC, Global Guidance Principles for Life Cycle
Assessment Databases. 2011.
2 Non-attributable processes under the control of the company
may be included in the inventory without available primary data.
This is to be expected if the general rules for collecting quality
data are applied, since including non-attributable processes in the
inventory is not a requirement of this standard.
3 Verification may take place in several ways, for example by on-site
checking, reviewing calculations, mass balance calculations, or
cross-checks with other sources.
4 Verification may take place in several ways, e.g., by on-site
checking, by recalculation, through mass balance, or by cross-
checks with other sources.
5 Includes calculated data (e.g., emissions calculated using
activity data) when the basis for calculation is measurement
(e.g., measured inputs). If the calculation is based partly on
assumptions, the score should be good or fair.

--- Page 62 of 148 ---

Allocation 09

--- Page 63 of 148 ---

guidance[61]
requirements
9.1 Introduction
In most product life cycles, there is at least one common process that has multiple
valuable products as inputs or outputs and for which it is not possible to collect data at
the individual input or output level. In these situations, the total emissions or removals
from the common process need to be partitioned among the multiple inputs and outputs. This
partitioning is known as allocation, an important and sometimes challenging element of a
product inventory process. Accurately allocating emissions or removals to the studied product
is essential to maintaining the quality of a GHG inventory.
This standard defines two types of products produced
from common processes:
•The studied product for which the GHG inventory is
being prepared
•Co-product(s) that have value as an input into another
product’s life cycle
Inputs to the common process may be services, materials,
or energy inputs. Outputs may be intermediate or final
products, energy outputs (such as electricity or district
heat), or waste. A typical common process is illustrated  
in figure 9.1.This chapter provides requirements and guidance to
help companies choose the most appropriate allocation
method to address common processes in their product
inventory. In addition, definitions and examples of the
methods available to avoid or perform allocation are
given. The chapter concludes with guidance, including
how to choose between allocation methods. For
simplicity, the methods and examples below focus only
on emissions. However, removals are also subject to
allocation following the same requirements and guidance.

--- Page 64 of 148 ---

[62]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standardrequirements
Figure [9.1]   Illustrative generic common process 
that requires allocation1

intermediate
product A
studied
product  
common
process
emissions

intermediate
product B
co-product  
A