File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 48 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

68
Therefore, when recalculating the base pe riod inventory, new landowners should assess
whether these changes occurred within the re levant look back period from their base
periods. If so, the associated changes in C st ocks should be included in the recalculated
base year inventory. For instance, if a compa ny acquired land that had been deforested by
the prior land-owner five years before the new land-owner’s base period, the associated
changes in C stocks should be included in the recalculated base period inventory.
Appendix II provides an example.   Proxy data on historical LUC should be used in the absence of actual data 
Companies, and especially new landowners, may find it difficult to obtain information on
historical LUC. What should they do in such cases? This Guidance recommends that
companies identify and estimate historical LU C using regional or local trends in, for
example, land clearance. Alte rnatively, remote sensing data may be available from
commercial or public databases, although th e collection of such data can be time
consuming and complicated.   
Additional reporting recommendations  
1. To maintain the transparency of reported data, companies should report when they
have not been able to collect historical  data and estimate historical effects.  
2. Companies should carefully document all assumptions made in amortizing CO
2
fluxes (see Chapter 9.1). This is becaus e the amortization sc hedule chosen by a
company will not match actual patterns of change, and a given period’s inventory will most likely under- or over-estimate th e actual fluxes (for instance, see Fig. 8-
2).  
3. If management shifts occur that would reverse any soil C sequ estration that has
previously been amortized, companies should account for these losses in the
inventory period in which the shift occurre d. For instance, if no till practices were
to cease at any point and be replaced by c onventional till, C sequestration will be
rapidly lost, and companies should record the cumulative gains up to that point as
CO
2 emissions in the inventory period in which conventi onal till started.
Appendix II provides simplified cas e studies that illustrate how amortization is carried
out, including for historical LUC.    

--- Page 69 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

69
 Figure 8-2.  Amortization schedules chosen by comp anies will not match actual patterns 
of change. In this example C sequesters in so il at a non-linear rate following the adoption
of reduced-tillage. But the CO 2 emissions are amortized at a fixed rate, causing actual
fluxes to be either under- or over-estimated in any one reporting period. Note that the
sequestration rates rise due to reduced so il disturbance but slow down as the C stock
becomes saturated due to inherent physiochemical processes.  

--- Page 70 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

70
Chapter 9: Reporting GHG Data
Fundamentally, a credible inve ntory provides information th at is complete, accurate,
consistent and transparent, while meeting the decision-making needs of both internal
management and external stakeholders.   This chapter: 
 Describes information that must be reported in an inventory.
 Outlines additional, sector-specific recommendations for reporting agricultural
GHG fluxes.
 Provides guidance on reporting offset a nd renewable energy projects on farms.

Summary of requirements and main recommendations:
 Companies shall report desc riptive information on inve ntory boundaries and base
periods.
 Companies shall report quantitative information on GHG fluxes following
requirements in the Corporate St andard (and repeated here).
 Companies should follow a set of additional ‘best practice’ recommendations for
reporting agricultural GHG fluxes.
 Any offset credits or renewable energy that are generated on farmland but sold
off-site shall not be reflec ted in inventory totals.