File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 40 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

56
 Box 7-2.  GHG trade-offs and the value of a whole-farm approach to calculating GHG 
fluxes
Mitigation options or best management pr actices (BMPs) intr oduced to reduce the
emissions of one GHG can sometimes increase those of others. Some examples include:
 Measures taken to enhance soil C se questration (e.g., no till-practices, the
recovery of degraded pasture, or in creased irrigation) can increase soil N 2O
emissions because of increased soil mo isture content, a supply of easily
mineralizable N, and/or reduced soil aeration.   
 Wooded riparian buffer zones can increase C sequestrati on but lead to increased
soil N 2O emissions, compared to field margins.  
 Constructed wetlands can se quester C over long time pe riods, but can also emit
CH 4.
 Aerating a manure lagoon to reduce CH 4 emissions will increase N 2O emissions.  
 Removal of straw from fl ooded rice paddies to reduce CH 4 emissions can lead to
the requirement for more fertilizer and increased N 2O emissions.  
 Leaving sugarcane residue on fields can increase soil C sequestration but also
increase CH 4 emissions.
 The winter use of restricted gr azing systems and stand-off pads – purpose built,
drained resting surfaces to hold livestock  over wet periods – to reduce soil N 2O 
emissions and N leaching can increase CH 4 emissions.  
 The application of N-transformation inhibi tors to soils to reduce the leaching of
some N 2O precursors may increase that of others.  
 These examples demonstrate the need to identify trade-offs and consider multiple emissions sources and GHGs in tandem when  evaluating possible mitigation measures. A 
whole-systems approach avoids potentially ill-advised practices based on preoccupation
with one individual GHG or practice.  

What tools are available fo r calculating GHG fluxes?
There are an increasing number of publicly available tools - spreadsheets, software and
protocols - for calculating GHG fluxes base d on emission factors, models or a
combination of these approaches. Appendix III provides a non-exhaustive list of such
tools. Most of the more accessi ble and user-friendly tools that  would be most amenable to 
use by farm managers tend to implement Tier  1 or Tier 2 approaches. Unfortunately, 
process-oriented models are often unwieldy to  use, although more user-friendly interfaces 
are available or under construction for some process models and specifically intended for
use by farm managers, extension agents, and consultants. These offer the most potential
for accurately calculating farm-level GHG fluxes, at least in regions for which
background, calibrating data sets are available.  

Tools should be evaluated agai nst a range of criteria  
This Guidance does not recommend speci fic tools for calculating GHG fluxes –
companies should instead select tools that best allow them to meet their objectives for

--- Page 57 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance