File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 85 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[111]CHAPTER 14 Setting Reduction Targets and Tracking Inventory Changes
guidanceStep 2:  Identify reduction opportunities
Companies can begin identifying potential emissions
reduction opportunities along the product’s life cycle
while creating the base inventory. These opportunities
can then be assessed based on the magnitude of the
reductions and the company’s level of influence. In
general, companies have the largest influence on
processes they control and therefore, a first step may be
to identify energy savings or fuel switching opportunities
within those processes.
In many cases the largest potential for improvement
comes from processes that are under the control of
suppliers and customers along the product’s life cycle.
To address these emissions, companies should identify
suppliers and customers to engage with, based on both
their level of influence and reduction potential. For use
and end-of-life processes, the company may determine
that improvements are influenced primarily by the design
of a product and less by the behaviors of customers. In
this case, companies should engage their product design
or research and development team.
Step 3:  Set a reduction target
A robust business strategy often includes setting
targets for revenues, sales, and other core business
indicators, as well as tracking performance against
those targets. Likewise, although performance tracking
a GHG product inventory over time can be done without
a reduction target, effective GHG management involves
setting a GHG target.
Companies should set a reduction target for the total
product’s life cycle to avoid the perception of cherry-
picking. In addition companies may also set individual
targets for stages or processes. A target should include
both a completion date and a target level - the numeric
value of the reduction target per unit of analysis (e.g.,
20 percent reduction). In general, companies should set
an ambitious target that reaches significantly beyond
business-as-usual. “Stretch goals” tend to drive greater
innovation and are seen as most credible by stakeholders.  
It is important to note that all reduction targets set for
a product inventory are made on the basis of the unit
of analysis, and the unit of analysis cannot change when comparing inventories over time. This means that if an
improvement made along the product’s life cycle changes
its unit of analysis, then a new inventory is completed and
the company needs to redefine the base inventory and
reduction goal based on the new unit of analysis.
Step 4:  Achieve and account for reductions
Companies may achieve reductions in different ways, such
as working within the company to improve the processing
or design of the product or engaging with customers
and suppliers. For the latter, the first step is to set up a
strategy for supplier and customer engagement (See
www.ghgprotocol.org  for further guidance). Companies 
should work with partners along the product’s life cycle
to identify emissions reduction opportunities. This may
include working with a supplier to help them manage
and reduce their corporate (scope 1, 2, and 3) emissions.
Other opportunities can include working with suppliers
to come up with substitute materials that are less GHG
intensive during production and/or reduce GHG impacts
further upstream (e.g., a lighter car panel that reduces
fuel use in the product use stage).
To account for reductions in emissions, companies
are referred to the data collection requirements of
this standard (chapter 8). Any reductions should be
assessed using collected direct measurement data,
activity data, or emission factors that abide by the
attributional approach of the standard (i.e., historical,
fact-based, and measurable) and have occurred prior
to the updated inventory.
One limitation of a GHG product inventory is that it
focuses on a single environmental impact. Before
making a decision to reduce GHG emissions by
making changes in the product life cycle, companies
should consider whether any environmental trade-
offs could occur as a result of that change - for
example, switching from a GHG intensive processing
step to one that uses more water resources. Box [14.1]  Trade-offs between environmental impacts

--- Page 114 of 148 ---