File Name: 2_E1_2021-06-30_VO_2021_1119_EUKG_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:55
Original Size: 0.54 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 2 of 31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

and to continue the transition to a climat e-neutral econom y. That repor t conf irms that greenhouse gas emissions
need to be urgently reduced, and that climat e chang e needs to be limite d to 1,5 °C, in particular to reduce the
likelihood of extreme weather events and of reac hing tipping points. The Intergo vernmental Science-P olicy Platf orm
on Biodiversity and Ecosyst em Services (IPBES) has shown in its 2019 Global Assessment Repor t on Biodiversity and
Ecosyst em Services a worldwide erosion of biodiversity , with climat e change as the third most important driver of
biodiversity loss.
(4) A fixed long-t erm objective is crucial to contr ibute to economic and societal transf ormation, high-quality jobs,
sustainable growth, and the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, as well as to reach
in a just, socially balanced, fair and cost-effe ctive manner the long-term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement.
(5) It is necessar y to address the growing climat e-related risks to health, including more frequent and intense heatwa ves,
wildfires and floods, food and wate r safety and secur ity threats, and the emerg ence and spread of infectious diseases.
As announced in its communication of 24 Febr uary 2021 entitled ‘Forging a climate-resilient Europe – the new EU
Strateg y on Adaptation to Climate Change’, the Commission has launch ed a European climate and health
obser vator y under the European Climate Adaptation Platf orm Climate -AD APT , to better understand, anticipate and
minimise the health threats caused by climat e change.
(6) This Regulation respects the fundamental rights and obser ves the principles recognised by the Char ter of
Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular Article 37 thereof whic h seeks to promote the integration
into the policies of the Union of a high level of environmental prot ection and the impro vement of the quality of the
environment in accordance with the principle of sustainable development.
(7) Climate action should be an oppor tunity for all sectors of the econom y in the Union to help secure industr y
leadership in global innovati on. Driven by the Union’s regulator y framew ork and efforts made by industr y, it is
possible to decouple economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions. For example, Union greenhouse gas
emissions were reduced by 24 % between 1990 and 2019, while the economy grew by 60 % over the same period.
Without prejudice to binding legislation and other initiatives adopt ed at Union level, all sectors of the economy –
including energy , industr y, transpor t, heating and cooling and buildings, agriculture, wast e and land use, land-use
change and forestr y, irrespective of whether those sector s are covered by the system for greenhouse gas emission
allowa nce trading within the Union (‘EU ETS’) – should play a role in contr ibuting to the achievement of climate
neutrality within the Union by 2050. In order to enhance involvement of all economic actors , the Commission
should facilita te sector -specifi c climate dialogues and partnerships by bringing together key stakeho lders in an
inclusive and representative manner , so as to encourage sectors themselves to draw up indicative volun tary
roadmaps and to plan their transition towards achieving the Union’s climat e-neutrality objective by 2050. Such
roadmaps could make a valuable contr ibution in assisting sectors in planning the necessar y investments towards
the transition to a climate -neutral economy and could also serve to strengthen sector al engagement in the pursuit of
climat e-neutral solutions. Such roadmaps could also compl ement existing initiatives, including the European Batter y
Alliance and the European Clean Hydrog en Alliance, which foster industr ial collaboration in the transition to climat e
neutrality .
(8) The Paris Agreement sets out a long-t erm temperature goal in point (a) of Article 2(1) thereof, and aims to
strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by increasing the ability to adapt to the adverse
imp acts of climat e change as set out in point (b) of Article 2(1) thereof and by making finance flows consiste nt with