File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 46 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

disturbance em issions , they may assume that all post - disturbance emissions occur in the year of the disturbance even t . That is , the CO 2 emissions from the long - term decay of DOM created during an event ( e . g . , downed trees from a windstorm ) can be reported in the year of the event . Alternatively , these emissions can be amortized ( see Chapter 8 . 3 ) . 8 . 3 Amortizing changes in carbon stocks over time What is ‘ amortizing ’ and when is it necessary ?

Shifts in management practices during the reporting period will often have long-lasting
effects on C stocks that may persist for d ecades. For instance, following a change in
management practices (e.g., adoption of no-til l practices) soil C stocks may take 15 - 60
years to reach equilibrium, depending on the type of tillage and crop rotation regimes.
Following LUC (e.g., conversion of cropland to  grassland), the transition period will 
often exceed 100 years (e.g., Figure 8-1). Also, as Figure 8-1 demonstrates, the rate of
change in C stocks will vary over time. Amortizing the CO 2 fluxes from changes in C
stocks involves allocating these fluxes across time (and therefore multiple inventories) to
ensure the more consistent acc ounting of C stock impacts.   

--- Page 65 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

65

 Figure 8-1.  Illustration of land use change  between grassland and cropland 

Source: To be provided

Whether amortization is needed depends on the calculation approach  
As discussed in Chapter 7.3, a variety of methods can be used to quantify CO 2 fluxes. If a
method is used that directly estimates the amount of GHG flux (or stock change) within
the reporting period, amortizat ion is not needed. Conversely,  if the estimated data are 
generated for the transition period as a whole, rather than just for the reporting period,
amortization is needed (Table 8-1).  
  Table 8-1.  Examples of calculation approaches that  will and will not require amortization 
of the calculated CO
2 fluxes.  
Calculation approach Examples Is amortization
required?
Directly provides an estimate of the amount of CO
2 flux or stock
change that occurred in the
reporting period, rather than in the transition period as a whole • A process model that estimates the
cumulative net CO
2 flux over the
reporting period
• An emission factor that has a time
dependence of only one year (e.g.,
tonnes C sequestered per hectare per
year of practice) No
Estimates the total amount of
CO 2 flux or stock change over
the entire transition period, under permanent adoption of the practice concerned Reference stock sizes for the amount of
carbon stored in the biomass of grassland and woodland that are used to quantify the stock change associated with LUC Yes

--- Page 66 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

66
Certain CO 2 fluxes should never be amortized
Irrespective of the quantification approach, certain CO 2 fluxes should never be amortized
and should always be reported in the year of the management pr actice. These are:  
 The CO 2 emissions from bioma ss and DOM combustion  
 The CO 2 emissions from the organic car bon stocks of organic soils.   

Amortizing the CO 2 emissions from DOM stocks is optional  
Some management practices ma y move C to DOM stocks that is not then emitted in the
year of the intervention. For inst ance, much of the C in biomass killed in a fire is added to
dead wood, litter and soil pools from where th e C will be emitted over years to decades,
as the DOM decomposes. Quantifying the emissions from these DOM stock changes can
be very challenging; for instance, DOM decay rates differ greatly between regions,
depending on temperature and moisture regimes. Consequently, companies may either assume that the total CO
2 emissions from DOM stocks occur in the year of the
intervention, or, should capacity and data ex ist, they may amortize these emissions over
time.   Table 8-2 summarizes when it is and is not appropriate to amortize CO
2 fluxes.