File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 27 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

37
 Table 5-2. Considerations for choosing an or ganizational boundary approach.  
Consideration  Preferred 
boundary
approach  Explanation  
Reflection of
commercial reality  Equity share Equity share is based on the share of economic 
interest in a business activity, which is a
reflection of commercial reality  
Government
reporting and emissions trading
programs  Operational control Programs usually require reporting on the basis 
of operational control  
Liability and risk
management  Equity share or 
financial control  The ultimate financial liability for GHG 
emissions often rests with the group company
that holds an equity share in the operation or has
financial control over it
Alignment with
financial accounting  Equity share or 
financial controlThese approaches result in the closest alignment
between GHG and financial accounting  
Management
information and
performance
tracking Operational control
or financial control  Managers can only be held accountable for 
activities under their control  
Cost of
administration and data access  Operational control 
or financial control  The equity share approach can result in higher 
costs because of resource requirements of collecting data from joint operations not under
the control of the reporting company.  

5.2 Setting operational boundaries  

Having set organizational boundaries using a ny one of the consolidation approaches,
companies should then set operational boundaries for each of their sources. These boundaries define whether an emission source is direct (i.e., is controlled or owned by the
reporting company) or indire ct (i.e., owned or controll ed by another company, but a
portion of whose emissions are a consequence of  the activities of the reporting company). 
Emission sources are further cl assified by scope (Box 1-1):
 Scope 1: All direct sources
 Scope 2: Consumption of purchased heat, st eam and electricity (a n indirect source)
 Scope 3: All other indirect sources
 All scope 1 and 2 sources shall be reported in  an inventory. Scope 3 sources are optional 
under the Corporate Standard, although it is recommended to measure and report
significant scope 3 sources (see Chapter 9.3). Also, with the exception of LUC, all CO
2
fluxes to/from C pools that are owned or c ontrolled by the reporting company should be
reported separately from the scopes in a sp ecial ‘Biogenic Carbon’  category. Biogenic 
CO 2 fluxes are considered further in Chapters 8 and 9.   

--- Page 38 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

38
What factors affect how oper ational boundaries are set?

Companies may encounter the following fact ors for consideration when determining
which scope a given source falls under:  
1. Production contracts
Agricultural products can be sold in va rious ways, including production contracts,
marketing contracts and spot markets (Figur e 5-2). Production contracts are distinct in
that they are agreements between contract ors (often called growers) and contractees
(often called integrators) that cede some m easure of control over the production process
to the integrator. The contract specifies: (1 ) the services to be provided by the grower
(e.g., fertilizer application schedules, husbandr y conditions); (2) the manner in which the
grower is to be compensated for the services ; and (3) specific inte grator responsibilities
for the provision of any inputs. There are ma ny different types of production contracts,
which vary according to whether the integrator or grower owns the product during production; whether the terms of  the contract are non-negotiabl e; and the extent to which 
the integrator provides inputs.  

For the purposes of reporting under this Guidance, growers are assumed to retain operational control over the contracted produc tion and should therefore account for 100%
of the associated emissions under scope 1 or  2 using the operationa l control approach. 
The accounting under financial or equity share a pproaches may differ. In particular, if the
integrator has established multi-year contra cts with individual growers and provides
extensive inputs, the integrators and grower s should each then account for a portion of
the emissions according to their share of investments in the production process.  
 Figure 5-2.  Primary sales routes for agricultural products