File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 5 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[06]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidance1.5  Use of the Product Standard  
for product comparison
The Product Standard is intended to support
performance tracking of a product’s GHG inventory
and emissions reductions over time. Additional
prescriptiveness on the accounting methodology, such
as allocation choices and data sources, are needed
for product labeling, performance claims, consumer
and business decision making based on comparison
of two or more products, and other types of product
comparison based on GHG impacts. See section 5.3.2
and Appendix A for more guidance on additional
specifications needed for comparison.
Claims regarding the overall environmental superiority or
equivalence of one product versus a competing product,
referred to in ISO 14044 as comparative assertions, are
not supported by the Product Standard.
1.6   Relationship to the Corporate  
and Scope 3 Standards
The GHG Protocol Scope 3 Standard and GHG Protocol
Product Standard both take a value chain or life cycle
approach to GHG accounting and were developed
simultaneously. The Scope 3 Standard builds on the
GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and accounts for
value chain emissions at the corporate level, while the
Product Standard accounts for life cycle emissions at the
individual product level. Together, the three standards
provide a comprehensive approach to value chain GHG
measurement and management.
The reporting company’s business goals should drive the
use of a particular GHG Protocol accounting standard.
The Scope 3 Standard enables a company to identify
the greatest GHG reduction opportunities across the
entire corporate value chain, while the Product Standard
enables a company to target individual products with the
greatest potential for reductions. The Scope 3 Standard
helps a company identify GHG reduction opportunities,
track performance, and engage suppliers at a corporate
level, while the Product Standard helps a company meet
the same objectives at a product level. The GHG Protocol
Scope 3 and Product
Standards both take
a value chain or life
cycle approach to  
GHG accounting.Common data is used
to develop scope 3
inventories and product
inventories, including
data collected from
suppliers and other
companies in the value
chain. Since there can
be overlap in data
collection, companies may find added business value and
efficiencies in developing scope 3 and product inventories
in parallel.
While each standard can be implemented independently,
both standards are mutually supportive. Integrated use
might include:
•Applying the Corporate Standard and Scope 3
Standard (to determine the company’s total scope 1,
scope 2, and scope 3 emissions) , using the results to
identify products with the most significant emissions,
then using the Product Standard to identify mitigation
opportunities in the selected products’ life cycles
•Using product-level GHG data based on the Product
Standard as a source of data to calculate scope 3
emissions associated with selected product types
•Applying the Corporate Standard, Scope 3 Standard
and the Product Standard and using the results to
inform GHG-reduction strategies at both the product
and corporate levels
The sum of the life cycle emissions of each of a company’s
products, combined with additional scope 3 categories4
(e.g., employee commuting, business travel, and
investments), should approximate the company’s total
corporate GHG emissions (i.e., scope 1 + scope 2 + scope
3). In practice, companies are not expected or required
to calculate life cycle inventories for individual products
when calculating scope 3 emissions.
Figure 1.1 illustrates the relationship between the
Corporate Standard, Product Standard, and Scope 3  
Standard. In this simplified example, a company
manufactures one product (Product A). The example
shows how scopes of emissions at the corporate level
correspond to life cycle stages at the product level.

--- Page 9 of 148 ---