File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 28 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[38]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
 [38]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidanceDuring boundary setting, it is important to document
attributable processes for which GHG removals from
the atmosphere may occur to ensure removal data are
collected later in the inventory process.
The amount of removal calculated for materials of
biogenic origin should only reflect the amount of
carbon contained, or embedded, in that material. For
example, if a product requires 50 tons of wood input
that is 50 percent carbon, 25 tons of carbon removal is
assumed. To convert carbon to CO2, the tons of carbon
are multiplied by the ratio of molecular weights of
CO2 (44) and carbon (12), respectively. Removals
and emissions due to land-use change or other stock
changes associated with the use of biogenic materials
are accounted for as land-use change impacts and are
defined in Appendix B.Box [7.2] GHG removalsMultiple entities are involved in the production,
distribution, use, and end-of-life of products – including
raw material suppliers, manufacturers, distributors,
retailers, consumers, etc. Each entity has a different
perspective along the life cycle of a given product.
Depending on an entity’s position in the life cycle,
a portion of the product’s life cycle emissions and
removals occurs prior to their involvement, while the
remainder occurs subsequent to their involvement.
Figure 7.3 is an example of a company that sells a final
product called a widget. In this example, all material
acquisition and material processing occurs prior to
the company’s involvement in the product’s life cycle.
Figure 7.4 is an example of a company that produces
an intermediate product to be used in the production
of the widget. In this example, widget production
occurs subsequent to the company’s involvement in
the product’s life cycle. Understanding a company’s
perspective within the life cycle of the studied product
is important as it influences the definition of life cycle
stages, data collection requirements, and supplier
engagement opportunities. Box [7.1]  The role of perspective in product  
GHG accounting7.3 Guidance
7.3.1		Defining	life	cycle	stages	and	identifying	
attributable processes
The perspective of a company influences the life cycle
stage boundaries and definitions. The following guidance
provides examples of life cycle stage boundaries,
descriptions, and attributable processes from the
perspective of a company that is performing an inventory
on a final product they produce or sell. Material acquisition and preprocessing
The material acquisition and preprocessing stage  starts 
when resources are extracted from nature and ends when
the product components enter the gate of the studied
product’s production facility. Other processes that may
occur in this stage include recycled material acquisition,
processing of materials into intermediate material inputs
(preprocessing), and transportation of material inputs
to the production facility. Transportation may also occur
between processes and facilities within the stage, such as
the transport of coal by trucks within a coal mining facility
or the transport of a petrochemical from the refinery to a
preprocessing facility. Examples of attributable processes
may include:
Figure [7.3]  Perspective of a company producing a final product

material
acquisiton
material
processing
widget
distribution
widget  
use
widget  
disposalwidget
production

--- Page 41 of 148 ---