File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 39 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[49]
CHAPTER 08 Collecting Data and Assessing Data Quality
guidance8.3 Guidance
Companies should follow the steps below when collecting
data and assessing data quality:
Step 1.  Develop a data management plan and document  
the data collection and assessment processes as
they are completed
Step 2.  Identify all data needs using the product’s  
process map
Step 3.  Perform a screening to help focus data  
collection efforts
Step 4.  Identify data types
Step 5.  Collect primary data for all processes under the 
ownership or control of the reporting company
Step 6.  For all other processes, collect primary or 
secondary data. Assess and document the data
quality of the direct emissions data, activity data,
and emission factors as the data are collectedStep 7.  Improve the data quality, focusing on processes 
that have a significant impact on the inventory
results
The following sections provide guidance on completing
each of these steps.
8.3.1  Data management plan
A data management plan is a tool to help companies
organize and consistently document the data collection
process, including sources of data, assumptions made,
and data quality. Documenting the data collection
process is useful for improving the data quality over
time, preparing for assurance, and revising future
product inventories to reflect changes in the product’s
life cycle. To ensure that all the relevant information
is documented, a data management plan should be
established early in the inventory process. Detailed
guidance on how to create and implement a data
management plan is given in Appendix C.
PepsiCo, Inc. is a leading global food and beverage
company whose brands include Pepsi, Lay’s, Quaker
Oats, Gatorade, and Tropicana. Working with Columbia
University, and using sector guidance developed by the
Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable, PepsiCo
inventoried the GHG emissions from a 64 ounce (1.9 liter)
gable top carton of their Tropicana Pure Premium brand
of orange juice using the following six step process:
1. Develop a comprehensive list of materials
2. Develop a process map
3. Collect emissions data
4. Perform a screening analysis
5. Fill data gaps with additional primary data and
acceptable secondary data
6. Calibrate against sector guidance and report
By collecting secondary data through the screening
analysis step, PepsiCo discovered that the orange
growing process was a large emissions contributor
to the product inventory. This result led PepsiCo to
collect its own primary data since these would be specific to the growing processes used for Tropicana
oranges and would allow the company to track
performance over time. PepsiCo’s selection of primary
data was further validated when comparison of the
data sources showed the secondary data were less
complete and contained significant differences in the
fertilizer, on-farm activities, and transportation data.
By using primary data, PepsiCo found that the orange
growing process, which included fertilizer use and
application, contributed approximately 35 percent of the
product’s emissions.
As a result, PepsiCo
is now working with
one of its long-term
orange growers to
test two lower-GHG
fertilizers in the
growing process.PepsiCo
By using primary data,
PepsiCo found that
the orange growing
process... contributed
35% of the
product’s emissions.

--- Page 52 of 148 ---