File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 23 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This approach ensures that there is no double counting
within scope 2 since only the T&D utility company willaccount for indirect emissions associated with T&Dlosses in scope 2. Another advantage of this approach isthat it adds simplicity to the reporting of scope 2 emis-sions by allowing the use of commonly available emissionfactors that in most cases do not include T&D losses.End consumers may, however, report their indirect emis-sions associated with T&D losses in scope 3 under thecategory “generation of electricity consumed in a T&D
system.” Appendix A provides more guidance onaccounting for emissions associated with T&D losses.
OTHER ELECTRICITY-RELATED INDIRECT EMISSIONS
Indirect emissions from activities upstream of acompany’s electricity provider (e.g., exploration, drilling,flaring, transportation) are reported under scope 3.Emissions from the generation of electricity that has beenpurchased for resale to end-users are reported in scope 3under the category “generation of electricity that ispurchased and then resold to end users.” Emissions fromthe generation of purchased electricity for resale to non-end-users (e.g., electricity traders) may be reported sepa-rately from scope 3 in “optional information.”
The following two examples illustrate how GHG emissions
are accounted for from the generation, sale, and
purchase of electricity.Example one (Figure 4): Company A is an independent
power generator that owns a power generation plant.The power plant produces 100 MWh of electricity andreleases 20 tonnes of emissions per year. Company B is an electricity trader and has a supply contract withcompany A to purchase all its electricity. Company B re-sells the purchased electricity (100 MWh) to company C,a utility company that owns / controls the T&D system.Company C consumes 5 MWh of electricity in its T&Dsystem and sells the remaining 95 MWh to company D.Company D is an end user who consumes the purchasedelectricity (95 MWh) in its own operations. Company Areports its direct emissions from power generation under scope 1. Company B reports emissions from thepurchased electricity sold to a non-end-user as optionalinformation separately from scope 3. Company C reportsthe indirect emissions from the generation of the part ofthe purchased electricity that is sold to the end-userunder scope 3 and the part of the purchased electricitythat it consumes in its T&D system under scope 2. End-user D reports the indirect emissions associated with itsown consumption of purchased electricity under scope 2and can optionally report emissions associated withupstream T&D losses in scope 3. Figure 4 shows theaccounting of emissions associated with these transactions.
Example two: Company D installs a co-generation unit
and sells surplus electricity to a neighboring company Efor its consumption. Company D reports all direct emis-sions from the co-generation unit under scope 1. Indirectemissions from the generation of electricity for export toE are reported by D under optional information separatelyGUIDANCESetting Operational Boundaries
CHAPTER 4 28Seattle City Light (SCL), Seattle’s municipal utility company, sellselectricity to its end-use customers that is either produced at itsown hydropower facilities, purchased through long-term contracts,or purchased on the short-term market. SCL used the first edition oftheGHG Protocol Corporate Standard to estimate its year 2000 and
year 2002 GHG emissions, and emissions associated with genera-tion of net purchased electricity sold to end-users was an importantcomponent of that inventory. SCL tracks and reports the amount ofelectricity sold to end-users on a monthly and annual basis.
SCL calculates net purchases from the market (brokers and other
utility companies) by subtracting sales to the market frompurchases from the market, measured in MWh. This allows acomplete accounting of all emissions impacts from its entire oper-ation, including interactions with the market and end-users. On anannual basis, SCL produces more electricity than there is end-usedemand, but the production does not match load in all months. So
SCL accounts for both purchases from the market and sales into themarket. SCL also includes the scope 3 upstream emissions fromnatural gas production and delivery, operation of SCL facilities,vehicle fuel use, and airline travel.