File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 64 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GUIDANCEVerification of GHG Emissions
70if its value exceeds 5% of the total inventory for the part
of the organization being verified.
The verifier needs to assess an error or omission in the
full context within which information is presented. Forexample, if a 2% error prevents a company fromachieving its corporate target then this would most likelybe considered material. Understanding how verifiersapply a materiality threshold will enable companies tomore readily establish whether the omissions of an indi-vidual source or activity from their inventory is likely toraise questions of materiality.
Materiality thresholds may also be outlined in the
requirements of a specific GHG program or determinedby a national verification standard, depending on whois requiring the verification and for what reasons. Amateriality threshold provides guidance to verifiers onwhat may be an immaterial discrepancy so that they canconcentrate their work on areas that are more likely to lead to materially misleading errors. A materialitythreshold is not the same as de minimis emissions, or a permissible quantity of emissions that a company canleave out of its inventory.
Assessing the risk of material discrepancy
Verifiers need to assess the risk of material discrepancyof each component of the GHG information collection andreporting process. This assessment is used to plan anddirect the verification process. In assessing this risk, theywill consider a number of factors, including:
The structure of the organization and the approach
used to assign responsibility for monitoring andreporting GHG emissions
The approach and commitment of management to
GHG monitoring and reporting
Development and implementation of policies and
processes for monitoring and reporting (includingdocumented methods explaining how data is generatedand evaluated)
Processes used to check and review calculation
methodologies
Complexity and nature of operations
Complexity of the computer information system used
to process the informationThe state of calibration and maintenance of meters
used, and the types of meters used
Reliability and availability of input data
Assumptions and estimations applied
Aggregation of data from different sources
Other assurance processes to which the systems and
data are subjected (e.g., internal audit, externalreviews and certifications).
Establishing the verification parameters
The scope of an independent verification and the level ofassurance it provides will be influenced by the company'sgoals and/or any specific jurisdictional requirements. Itis possible to verify the entire GHG inventory or specificparts of it. Discrete parts may be specified in terms ofgeographic location, business units, facilities, and type ofemissions. The verification process may also examinemore general managerial issues, such as quality manage-ment procedures, managerial awareness, availability ofresources, clearly defined responsibilities, segregation ofduties, and internal review procedures.
The company and verifier should reach an agreement up-
front on the scope, level and objective of the verification.This agreement (often referred to as the scope of work) willaddress issues such as which information is to be includedin the verification (e.g., head office consolidation only orinformation from all sites), the level of scrutiny to whichselected data will be subjected (e.g., desk top review or on-site review), and the intended use of the results of theverification). The materiality threshold is another item tobe considered in the scope of work. It will be of key consid-eration for both the verifier and the company, and is linkedto the objectives of the verification.
The scope of work is influenced by what the verifier actu-
ally finds once the verification commences and, as a result,the scope of work must remain sufficiently flexible toenable the verifier to adequately complete the verification.
A clearly defined scope of work is not only important
to the company and verifier, but also for externalstakeholders to be able to make informed and appro-priate decisions. Verifiers will ensure that specificexclusions have not been made solely to improve thecompany’s performance. To enhance transparency andcredibility companies should make the scope of workpublicly available.
CHAPTER 10

--- Page 73 of 116 ---