File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:25
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 203 of 226
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[127]
The process of setting up a data management system
should involve establishing standard procedures to
address all of the data management activities, including
the quality control and quality assurance aspects of
developing a product inventory.
C.2 Creating a data management plan
To develop a data management plan, the following steps
should be undertaken and documented.
1. Establish a product accounting quality person/
team. This person/team should be responsible for
implementing and maintaining the data management
plan, continually improving the quality of product
inventories, and coordinating internal data exchanges
and any external interactions (such as with relevant
product accounting programs and assurance
providers). The person/team may be responsible for all
product inventories undertaken by a company or for
an individual product inventory.
2. Develop a data management plan. For publicly-
disclosed product inventories, the plan should cover
the components outlined in the section above (also
see table C.1) Documenting this information should
assist with completing repeat product inventories and
assessing and improving the quality of the current
product inventory.   
Development of the data management plan
should begin before any data is collected to ensure
all relevant information about the inventory is
documented as it proceeds. The plan should evolve
over time as data collection and processes are refined.
3. Perform generic data quality checks based on
the data management plan.  Generic checks 
should be applied to all aspects of the inventory
process, focusing on data quality, data handling,
documentation, and calculation procedures.
4. Perform specific data quality checks.  Specific checks 
are more in-depth than generic and should be made
for those sources, processes, and/or activities that
are major contributors to the product inventory and/
or have high levels of uncertainty (see chapter 10 on
assessing uncertainty).5. Review final product inventory and reports. Review
procedures should be established that match the
purpose of the inventory and the type of assurance
performed. Internal reviews should be undertaken
in preparation for the assurance process by the
appropriate department within a company, such as  
an internal audit or accounting department.  
6. Establish formal feedback loops to improve data
collection, handling, and documentation processes.
Feedback loops are needed to improve the quality
of the product inventory over time and to correct any
errors or inconsistencies identified in the review process.
7. Establish reporting, documentation, and archiving
procedures. Establish record-keeping processes for
what and how data should be stored over time, what
information should be reported as part of internal
and external inventory reports, and what should be
documented to support data collection and calculation
methodologies. The process may also involve aligning