File Name: 2_E1_2021-06-30_VO_2021_1119_EUKG_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:55
Original Size: 0.54 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 22 of 31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- Page 9 of 17 ---

This Regulation applies to anthropog enic emissions by sources and removals by sink s of the greenhouse gases listed in Part
2 of Annex V to Regulation (EU) 2018/1999.
Article 2
Climate-neutrality objectiv e
1. Union-wide greenhouse gas emissions and remo vals regulated in Union law shall be balanced within the Union at the
latest by 2050, thus reducing emissions to net zero by that date, and the Union shall aim to achieve negative emissions
thereaf ter.
2. The relevant Union institutions and the Member States shall take the necessar y measures at Union and national level,
respectively , to enable the collective achievement of the climate-neutrality objective set out in paragraph 1, taking into
account the importance of promoting both fairness and solidar ity among Member States and cost-effectiveness in
achi eving this objective.
Article 3
Scientif ic advice on climate change
1. The European Scientifi c Advisor y Board on Climat e Change established under Article 10a of Regulation (EC)
No 401/2009 (the ‘Advisor y Board’) shall serve as a point of referen ce for the Union on scientifi c knowledg e relating to
climat e change by virtue of its independence and scientifi c and technical exper tise.
2. The task s of the Advisor y Board shall include:
(a) consider ing the latest scientific findings of the IPCC repor ts and scientifi c climat e data, in particular with regard to
information relevant to the Union;
(b) providing scientifi c advice and issuing repor ts on existing and proposed Union measures, climat e targe ts and indicative
greenhouse gas budget s, and their coherence with the objectives of this Regulation and the Union’s intern ational
commitments under the Paris Agreement ;
(c) contr ibuting to the exchang e of independent scientific kno wledge in the field of modelling, monitori ng, promising
research and innovati on whic h contr ibute to reducing emissions or increasing removals;
(d) identifying actions and oppor tunities needed to successfully achieve the Union climat e targe ts;
(e) raising awar eness on climat e chang e and its impacts, as well as stimulating dialogue and cooperation between scientific
bodies within the Union, complementing existing work and efforts.
3. The Advisor y Board shall be guided in its work by the best available and most recent scientific evidence, including the
latest repor ts of the IPCC, IPBES and other international bodies. It shall follow a fully transparent process and make its
repor ts publicly available. It may take into account, where available, the work of the national climat e advisor y bodies
refer red to in paragraph 4.
4. In the context of enhancing the role of science in the field of climate policy , each Member State is invit ed to establish a
national climat e advisor y body , responsible for providing exper t scientifi c advice on climat e policy to the relevant national
author ities as prescr ibed by the Member State concer ned. Where a Member State decides to establish such an advisor y body ,
it shall inform the EEA thereof.
Article 4
Inter mediate Union climate targets
1. In order to reach the climat e-neutrality objective set out in Article 2(1), the binding Union 2030 climate target shall
be a domestic reduction of net greenhouse gas emissions (emissions after deduction of remo vals) by at least 55 %
compare d to 1990 levels by 2030.EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Union 9.7.2021                                                                                                                                            L 243/9  

--- Page 10 of 17 ---