File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 51 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- mechanical source ( e . g . , enteric fermentation versus manure management ) 13 This Guidance follows the ‘ land - based ’ approach for recognizing LUC , as opposed to an ‘ activities - based ’ approach . Land - based approaches assess the net emissions of select land - use categories while activity - based approaches as sess the net emissions of select land - use activities . Both approaches can be used for developing national GHG inventories for the UNFCCC . - - - Page 74 of 103 - - - GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

74
 Emissions of other GHGs (e.g., those of CFCs)
 Performance metrics and a description of any allocation approach used in deriving
these (see Appendix I)
 A description of performance measured ag ainst internal or external benchmarks
 An outline of current management practi ces and any GHG management strategies
 GHG flux data for relevant scope 3 sources for which reliable da ta can be obtained
 Information on the uncertainty of GHG flux data

The reporting of scope 3 sources  is optional, but encouraged  
Scope 3 sources are many and diverse. The Sc ope 3 Standard identifies 15 distinct
categories. These include the activities of  the reporting company’s direct suppliers, 
cradle-to-gate impacts further upstream, as well as downstream activities, such as the
customer use and disposal of products the company has manufactured and sold.  Which 
scope 3 sources should be included in an inventory? Companies may either:  
 1. Report scope 3 emissions in accordance with  the Corporate Standard (i.e. scope 3 
sources are optional)  
2. Report scope 3 emissions in accordance with the Scope 3 Standard  
 For many companies, scope 3 emissions will represent a significant component of overall GHG impacts. For instance, the manufacture of  fertilizer and livestock feed will be 
important scope 3 sources for crop and lives tock operations, respectively. Moreover,
companies may undertake some actions that reduce their scope 1 and 2 emissions, but
that then increase their scope 3 emissions (e.g., the outsourcing of feed production).  For 
these reasons, specific scope 3 sources s hould be reported where those sources are
considered significant. Criteria for as sessing significance can include amounts of
emissions, emissions reduction potential, contri bution to risk exposur e (e.g., regulatory or
reputational risks), and importance to stakeh olders. In general, the scope 3 emissions
from fertilizer and feed production should be included in inventories, where possible.  
9.4 Agricultural offset and renewable energy projects

Companies can generate renewabl e energy in many ways, including:
 Developing their own wind turbines or leasing land to wind power development
firms  
 Growing trees, short rotation woodland a nd short rotation coppi ce as a source of
biomass fuel stock  
 Installing anaerobic digesters to produce methane as fuel for electricity or heat
 Developing farm-scale micro hydroelectricity  schemes (typically less than ~ 100kW)  
 Using solar panels

Such projects are a potential s ource of offset credits. Other offset projects could be based
on the reforestation or rest oration of degraded lands and changes in fertilizer
management.    

--- Page 75 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

75
Accounting for renewable energy projects
The impact of many of these projects on a company’s inventory will depend on whether
any of the energy that is generated is cons umed on-site by the company or sent to the
grid. If the energy is consumed on-site, the project may reduce the amount of electricity
or fuel consumed, resulting in  a reduction in scope 1 or sc ope 2 emissions that will be 
evident when comparing inventories over time . On the other hand, if the energy is sent
off-site, it shall not be used to lower scope 1 or scope 2 em issions. This is necessary to
prevent double counting of the emissions be nefits of that energy. This requirement
extends to the calculation of performance metrics, which should not include the
emissions benefits of sold energy. The GHG Protocol Guidelines for Grid-Connected
Electricity Projects  – a supplement to the Project Pr otocol (Chapter 1.2) - provide 
guidance on quantifying the emission s reductions from sold energy.