File Name: 2_E1_2021-06-30_VO_2021_1119_EUKG_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:55
Original Size: 0.54 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 14 of 31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Commission intends to assess the impacts of the introduction of additional Union measures that could
compl ement existing measures, such as market-based measures that include a strong solidar ity mechanis m.
(27) According to Commission assessments, the existing commitments under Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2018/841
result in a net carbon sink of 225 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent in 2030. In order to ensure that suffi cient
mitig ation efforts are deplo yed until 2030, it is appropr iate to limit the contr ibution of net removals to the Union
2030 climat e target to that level. This is without prejudice to the review of the relevant Union legislation in order to
enable the achievement of the target.
(28) Expenditure under the Union budget and the European Union Recov ery Instr ument established by Council
Regulation (EU) 2020/2094 (13)contr ibut es to climat e objectives, by dedicating at least 30 % of the tota l amount of
the expenditure to suppor ting climat e objectives, on the basis of an effective methodology and in accordance with
sector al legislation.
(29) In light of the objective of achieving climat e neutrality by 2050 and in view of the international commitments under
the Paris Agreement, continued efforts are necessar y to ensure the phasing out of energy subsidies which are
incompati ble with that objective, in particular for fossil fuels, without impa cting efforts to reduce energy poverty.
(30) In order to provid e predictability and conf idence for all economic actors , including businesses, work ers, investors
and consumers, to ensure a gradual reduction of greenhouse gas emissions over time and that the transition
towards climate neutrality is irreversible, the Commission should propose a Union interm ediate climate targe t for
2040, as appropr iate, at the latest within six months of the first global stoc ktake carried out under the Paris
Agreement. The Commission can make proposals to revise the intermediat e target, taking into account the findings
of the assessments of Union progress and measures and of national measures as well as the outcomes of the global
stoc ktake and of intern ational developments, including on common time frames for nationally deter mined
contr ibutions. As a tool to increase the transparency and accountability of the Union’s climate policies, the
Commission should, when making its legislative proposal for the Union 2040 climate target, publish the project ed
indicative Union greenhouse gas budget for the 2030-2050 period, defined as the indicative total volume of net
greenhouse gas emissions that are expected to be emitted in that period without putting at risk the Union’s
commitments under the Paris Agreement, as well as the methodology underlying that indicative budget.
(31) Adaptation is a key compo nent of the long-t erm global response to climat e change. The adverse effects of climate
change can poten tially exceed the adap tive capacities of Member States. Theref ore, Member State s and the Union
should enhance their adaptiv e capacity , strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability to climat e chang e, as provided
for in Article 7 of the Paris Agreement, as well as maximise the co-benefi ts with other policies and legislation. The
Commission should adopt a Union strategy on adaptation to climate change in line with the Paris Agreement.
Member States should adopt compr ehensive national adap tation strateg ies and plans based on robust climat e
change and vulnerability analyses, progress assessments and indicators, and guided by the best available and most
recent scientific evidence. The Union should seek to creat e a favourable regulatory environment for national policies
and measures put in place by Member State s to adapt to climate change. Improving climate resilience and adap tive
capacities to climat e chang e requires shared efforts by all sectors of the econom y and society , as well as policy
coherence and consist ency in all relevant legislation and policies.
(32) Ecosyst ems, people and economies in all regions of the Union will face major impacts from climate change, such as
extreme heat, floods, droughts, wate r scarcity , sea level rise, thawing glaciers, forest fires, windthrows and
agricultural losses. Recent extreme events have already had substantial impacts on ecosystems , affecting carbon