File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 56 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[70]   Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard
guidanceon the common process in order to select an allocation
method. When using assumptions, companies should
assess the scenario uncertainty to determine how the
assumptions may impact the inventory results. (See
chapter 10 for more guidance on assessing uncertainty.)
9.3.4  Choosing between physical  
and economic allocation
Step 3 in figure 9.2 states that if a physical relationship
between the studied product, co-product, and the
emissions and removals of a common process is not
applicable or cannot be established, then companies
should use economic or other relationships. Physical
relationships cannot be established when the following
conditions apply:
•There is no data available on the physical relationship
between the studied product, co-products, and the
process emissions and removals (e.g., the process
is operated by a supplier and that information is
proprietary)
•There are multiple co-products along with the studied
product and no one common physical allocation factor
is applicable (e.g., some outputs are measured in terms
of energy and others in volume or mass)
However, in many cases it may not be clear whether a
physical relationship can be established, and companies may
struggle to determine if an economic relationship is more
applicable. In general, physical allocation is preferred when:
•A physical relationship between the studied product
and co-products can be established that reflects their
relative emissions contributions
•A change in the physical output of the studied product
and co-products is correlated to a change in the
common process’s emissions (e.g., if more co-product
is produced more emissions occur)
•There is a strong brand influence on the market value
of the various co-products which does not reflect the
relative emissions contribution of the outputs. (e.g., a
process creates the same product with different brand
names that therefore has different prices, but the
relative emissions are the same)Economic allocation is preferred when:
•The physical relationship cannot be established (as
described above)
•The co-products would not be produced using the
common process without the market demand for the
studied product and/or other valuable co-products
(e.g., by-catch from lobster harvesting)
•The co-products were a waste output that acquires
value in the market place as a replacement for another
material input (e.g., fly ash in cement production)
•The physical relationship does not adequately reflect
the relative emissions contributions
EXAMPLE
In the process of catching lobster, additional fish are often
caught by default and sold as by-catch. By-catch is much
less valuable than lobster, but in some cases can account
for a substantial portion of the mass output of the catching
process. Economic allocation is preferred in this case because
the co-product (by-catch) would most likely not be caught
in the same manner if the fisherman were not also catching
lobster, and because a change in the physical output of
products is not strongly correlated to a change in process
emissions (i.e., depending on the day more or less by-catch
and lobster are possible using the same amount of fuel).
CO2 removals that occur upstream from a common
process also need to be allocated when part of
the material that removed the CO2 from the
atmosphere becomes a co-product. In the example
illustrating system expansion, black liquor contains
lignin and other biogenic materials separated from
the wood during pulping. A company needs to
determine the amount of the original wood that
is exiting the boundary as electricity, and then
subtract the equivalent amount of removals from
the material acquisition stage. This is also true when
a material that contributed to removals is recycled
into another product’s life cycle. Correctly allocating
removals is important to avoid double counting
among different products. Box [9.2] Allocating removals

--- Page 73 of 148 ---