File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 55 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

, this Guidance is not concerned with allocations for product - level GHG accounting – for guidance on th is topic , see the GHG Protocol Product Standard , sectoral life cycl e accounting guidance , or produc t category rules . Should allocations be performed , note that co - p roducts without economic value are considered wastes and should have no GHG fl uxes allocated to them . Also , if GHG fluxes are allocated , they should sum to the total flux initially calculated . Figure I - 1 . Illustration of a common process requiring allocation

Allocation should be avoided where possible
If possible, companies should avoid allocati on because allocation adds uncertainty to
performance metrics. Companies may be able to avoid allocation in  a number of ways: 
 By dividing the common GHG emitti ng process into sub-processe s that separately produce
the various products. This approach may be  accomplished by subdividing the farm and 
providing data on the quantities of inputs going to  each farm enterprise. Mechanical sources 
will often be the most difficult to allocate because farm records are often on a whole-farm basis. One possible solution may be to se t up energy use accounting on a per product basis
by, for example, sub-metering individual faciliti es and tracking fuel consumption or the
number of field passe s by field and date.
 By redefining the scope of analysis for the perf ormance metric so that the fluxes attributable
to the various products no longer have to be separated. For instance, by expressing GHG
emissions on a kg sheep-raised basis as opposed to a kg lamb meat basis, it is no longer
necessary to separate out the emissi ons attributable to wool production.  

Different allocation approaches exist
Should allocation be unavoidable, th e following approaches may be used:

--- Page 81 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

81

Physical allocation: Allocations  are based on an underlying phys ical relationship between the 
multiple inputs/outputs and the GHG fluxes. For example, if mass is the main causal factor
driving differences between products, allocations  can be based on the mass of farm outputs: 

Allocated flux ൌ ൬Mass of specific product produced
Total	mass	of	all	products	produced൰	x	Total	flux  

Alternatively, physical allocations  could be made based on the num ber or dietary quality of the 
products. The factor chosen should most accurate ly reflect the underlying physical relationship
between the products and GHG fluxes. For example,  if the mass of the outputs determines the 
amount of flux, choosing an energy content fact or would not provide the most accurate
allocation.
Economic allocation: Allocations are based on the market value of each product leaving the
process, as follows:

Allocated flux ൌ ൬Market Value of specific product produced
Total	market	value	of	all	products	produced൰	x	Total	flux  

The market value of co-product(s) should be th e value of the co-products as they leave the
common process (i.e. prior to any further proces sing). Also, if prices for the outputs vary over
the reporting period, it may be necessary to develop averages for the market values of the outputs
over this period.    Under either physical or economic allocati on, co-products without economic value are 
considered wastes and should have  no GHG fluxes allocated to them.