File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 57 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduction
Shifts in the management of farmland or the conversion of one land-us e category into another
can change C stocks over long time periods. Chapter 8 describes methodologies for accounting
for the associated CO 2 fluxes. Depending on how these fluxes have been calculated, they may
have to be amortized over a defined time period,  with an equal amount of  flux allocated to each 
year over that period. Consistent with Inte rgovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
methodologies, the length of this period can be assumed to be 20 years, unless more specific
information is available (see Chapter 8.3).   The amortization approach is illustrated here us ing a common land use pattern in central Brazil - 
the conversion of native vegetati on (cerrado) into pasture and s ubsequently into an annual crop
rotation (soybean-corn). Two cases are presented:
 Case A: All soil stock changes are amortized  before any further changes occur in the 
ownership or management of stocks  
 Case B:
 Case C: Purchase of land undergoing changes in C stocks
While these cases are hypothetical, they use repres entative data on soil C st ocks that are derived
from published studies. To facilit ate ease of understanding, only soil C stocks are considered,
while all fluxes are amortized before any furt her shifts occur in ma nagement practices. The
management practices and land-use types consid ered, along with the corresponding C stocks, are
shown in Table II-1.  Table II-1.  Soil C stocks of different manage ment practices and land use types.

--- Page 84 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

84
Case A: All soil stock changes are amorti zed before any further changes
occur in the ownership or management of stocks  
Cerrado is converted into a no-till crop system over the course of 75 years. While multiple shifts
in land use and farming practices occu r over this period, the resulting CO 2 fluxes are fully
amortized before any further shifts occur. Table II-2 describes the ti me series of shifts in land use
and management practices, as well as how the corresponding CO 2 fluxes are amortized. GHG
emissions inventories are prepared annually. Figu re II-1 shows how the C stocks change over
time with amortization.  Table II-2.  The amortization schedule for case A 

Figure II-1:  Changes in C stocks are fully amortized before any further shifts in management 
practices or management occur (Case A)

--- Page 85 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

85

Case B: Not all soil stock changes are amortized be fore a further change
occurs in stock management
Same as Case A, except that the pasture is converted into a full-till crop system only 10 years
after the cerrado was first converted into pastur e (i.e., when only half of the change in carbon
stocks has been amortized). Table II-3 describe s the time series of shifts in land use and
management practices, as well as how the en suing changes in carbon stocks are amortized.

--- Page 86 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

86
 Table II-3.  The amortization schedule for case B. 

Case C: Purchase of land unde rgoing changes in C stocks
Same as Case A, but the land is acquired by the reporting company (a t year 28) after its
conversion into pasture (Figure II-2). The reporting company amortizes the CO 2 fluxes from this
conversion over a 20 year period (ending year 25), but does not include all of these fluxes in its
inventories. Instead, it only revises its inventories to report the CO 2 fluxes that occurred during
years 20–25. This is because year 20 was established as its base pe riod. Table II-4 describes how
the changes in C stocks are amor tized by the reporting company.
 Figure II-2.  The reporting company purchases land that  is undergoing changes in C stocks 
because of a shift in land use made by a prior owner (Case C)

--- Page 87 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance

87