File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:43
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 78 of 104
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Considering whether there are any existing environmental
or energy plans, capital investments, product/servicechanges, or targets that will affect GHG emissions.Are there plans already in place for fuel switching, on site power generation, and/or renewable energyinvestments that affect the future GHG trajectory?
Benchmarking GHG emissions with similar
organizations. Generally, organizations that havenot previously invested in energy and other GHG reductions should be capable of meeting more aggres-sive reduction levels because they would have morecost-effective reduction opportunities.
10. Track and report progress
Once the target has been set, it is necessary to trackperformance against it in order to check compliance,and also—in order to maintain credibility—to reportemissions and any external reductions in a consistent,complete and transparent manner.

CARRY OUT REGULAR PERFORMANCE CHECKS. In order
to track performance against a target, it is importantto link the target to the annual GHG inventory processand make regular checks of emissions in relation tothe target. Some companies use interim targets forthis purpose (a target using a rolling target base yearautomatically includes interim targets every year).
REPORT INFORMATION IN RELATION TO THE TARGET.
Companies should include the following information when
setting and reporting progress in relation to a target:
1. Description of the target
Provide an outline of the target boundaries chosen
Specify target type, target base year, target
completion date, and length of commitment period
Specify whether offsets can be used to meet the     
target; if yes, specify the type and amount
Describe the target double counting policy
Specify target level.
2. Information on emissions and performance in rela-
tion to the target
Report emissions from sources inside the target
boundary separately from any GHG trades
If using an intensity target, report absolute emis-
sions from within the target boundary separately, both from any GHG trades and the business metric
Report GHG trades that are relevant to
compliance with the target (including how many offsets were used to meet the target)
Report any internal project reductions sold or
transferred to another organization for use as an offset
Report overall performance in relation to the target.CHAPTER 11 Setting a GHG Target 85GUIDANCE
1Some companies may formulate GHG efficiency targets by formulating
this ratio the other way around.
2Examples include the U.K. ETS, the CCX, and the EU ETS.
3Holcim’s and Lafarge’s target have been formulated using the termi-nology of the WBCSD Cement CO2Protocol (WBCSD, 2001), which
uses“specific” to denote emissions per tonne of cement produced.
4It is possible to use an interval other than one year. However, the longer
the interval at which the base year rolls forward, the more this approachbecomes like a fixed target base year. This discussion is based on arolling target base year that moves forward at annual intervals.
5Note that simply adding the yearly emissions changes under the rollingbase year yields a different result from the comparison over time madewith a fixed base year, even without structural changes. In absoluteterms, an X% reduction every year over 5 years (compared to theprevious year) is not the same as an (X times 5) reduction in year 5compared to year 1.
6Depending on which recalculation methodology is used when applyingthe rolling base year, the comparison over time can include emissionsthat occurred when the company did not own or control the emissionsources. However, the inclusion of this type of information is mini-mized. See also the guidance document “Base year recalculationmethodologies for structural changes” on the GHG Protocol website(www.ghgprotocol.org).7For further details on different recalculation methodologies, see theguidance document “Base year recalculation methodologies for struc-tural changes” on the GHG Protocol website (www.ghgprotocol.org).
8As noted in chapter 8, offsets can be converted to credits. Credits arethus understood to be a subset of offsets. This chapter uses the termoffsets as a generic term.
9For the purposes of this chapter, the terms “internal” and “external”refer to whether the reductions occur at sources inside (internal) oroutside (external) the target boundary.