File Name: 2_E1-6_2014-01-01_G_GHG-Agri_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:54
Original Size: 1.75 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 30 of 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

42
 Chapter 6: Tracking GHG fluxes over Time  
Setting and using base periods is a fundamental step in de signing GHG inventories. They
help companies compare performance against a point in the past and they put the effects
of changes in inventory met hodologies into context, allowi ng meaningful and consistent
comparisons of performance over time. Ag ricultural activities and environmental
conditions that affect GHG fluxes can change a lot over time. Also, structural changes
such as acquisitions, divestments, and merger s, can affect the types of operations that
need to be reported in inventories. Companie s need to take these changes into account
whilst setting and us ing base periods.  
This chapter:
 Details requirements and recommendati ons for choosing a base period and for
recalculating base period data to ensure  historical comparisons are meaningful. 

Summary of requirements and main recommendations:
 Companies shall choose and establish a ba se period, and specify the reasons for
choosing that period.  
 The base period shall be the earliest poin t in time for which verifiable data are
available on scope 1 and scope 2 emissions.  
 Multi-year base periods are r ecommended for many companies.
 Companies shall develop a base period em issions recalculation policy, and clearly
articulate the basis and context for any recalculations. If a pplicable, the policy
shall state any “significant threshold”.
 Companies shall recalculate the base pe riod inventory to reflect changes in
organizational structures or  calculation methods, or the discovery of errors, which 
significantly impact the base period inventory.

6.1 Setting base periods
The base period is the period in history ag ainst which an organization’s GHG fluxes are
tracked over time7. Both the Corporate Standard and this Guidance require companies to
establish a base period. Companies shall use as a base period the earliest relevant point in
time for which they have verifiable data on scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. Critically, the
base period should be repres entative of a company’s GHG profile. This has several
implications:  
Base periods shall not be less than one year   
The base period should not be an individual crop year  or production season (for 
livestock) that is less than one year. Othe rwise, the effects of seasonal management
activities may not be reflected in the base period. For instan ce, tillage practices, winter
cover crops and double cropping systems can cau se emissions outside of the growing

7 The Corporate Standard uses the term  ‘base year’ instead of ‘base period.’  The latter term is used here to 
avoid confusion because base periods may comprise more than one year.

--- Page 43 of 103 ---

GHG Protocol Agricultural Guidance