File Name: 2_E1-6_2011-09-01_G_GHG-PLC_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:53
Original Size: 3.27 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 95 of 116
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[121]
B.2		When	the	specific	land	use	is	unknown 	
When a company has limited information on the specific
land from which the product or product components
are extracted or harvested, it can be difficult to
determine how to attribute or distribute impacts.  
This situation occurs when a company buys crops or
biomass from a supplier who receives indistinguishable
shipments from a wide range of land-based sources.
Under such circumstances, primary data are not
available and secondary data are used to calculate stock
changes and determine how much land-use change
impacts should be distributed to a product.
The first step in estimating land-use changes impacts
is to determine in what location the crops or biomass
were likely grown. If the crop or biomass is grown only
in certain locations due to climates and soil types, those
locations should be used. If the crop or biomass is grown
in many locations, a company may choose the largest
producing location or the most likely location (e.g., due
to proximity to the production facility). Companies are
encouraged to perform scenario uncertainty if more than
one location is plausible.  Companies may also take an 
average of locations if data are available to support that
calculation (e.g., all locations have carbon stock change
data available). Once the location has been determined,
companies may use the following data to estimate the
carbon stock and land-use change impacts:
 •Land-use imaging and/or agricultural demand-  
based models
•Average data, including:
•International statistics
•Country- or region-specific statistical databases
•Statistical yearbooks
Land-use imaging and/or agricultural demand-based
models include using remote sensing11 or GIS data to
estimate land-use change in a particular location or
market-based models12 to estimate land-use change
based on the market trends of a crop or wood product.  
For example, if the studied product is a crop assumed to
be produced in New Zealand, and satellite imagery shows
that land use for that crop has remained constant in New
Zealand for the past 20 years, then the company can
assume that no land-use change impacts are attributable to their product. While these methods may be the most
accurate, they are often complex, time consuming, and
not freely available. Additionally, they may not provide an
accurate representation for some countries.  If a company 
has access to these tools they are encouraged to use
them to determine land-use change impacts as long as
the modeled results are justified and transparent.  
When a company does not have access to models or
imaging data, it may use average statistics to estimate
land-use change impacts.  For example, companies may 
use the agricultural or forestry statistic for the assumed
location to determine the change in land occupation
for the studied product versus the total land change
in that location. The following example shows the
steps companies can follow to use agricultural data
to determine whether land-use change has occurred.
The same technique may be used for managed wood
products using forestry data.  If the crop or biomass that 
is being studied is shown to occupy less land over the
20-year assessment period, the company can assume that
no land-use change has taken place.  If the amount of 
land occupied by the crop or biomass being studied has
increased, then land-use change impacts are attributable.
In this case the company needs to assume what the
original land category was. This should be based on the
type of land present in the assumed location and when
more than one land type is possible the conservative
choice should be made.  
It is important to note that any assumptions made
about land-use change impacts are only estimations
and subject to much uncertainty. Because these
estimation techniques cannot identify when the land-
use change occurs, companies should always assume
1/20th of the land-use change impact, as shown in
the following examples.  Companies may also choose 
not to make any assumptions about land-use change
and only use the worst case scenario (e.g., all land is
converted from the most carbon rich land category).
Information on the methods used to determine