File Name: 2_E1-6_2004-03_G_GHG-Prot_WRI&WBCSD.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:18:16
Original Size: 3.51 MB
Chunk Size: 500 tokens with 50 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 177 of 225
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

his appendix provides guidance on how to account
for and report indirect emissions associated withthe purchase of electricity. Figure A–1 provides
an overview of the transactions associated withpurchased electricity and the corresponding emissions.  
Purchased electricity for own consumption
Emissions associated with the generation of purchasedelectricity that is consumed by the reporting companyare reported in scope 2. Scope 2 only accounts for theportion of the direct emissions from generating elec-tricity that is actually consumed by the company. Acompany that purchases electricity and transports it in atransmission and distribution (T&D) system that it ownsor controls reports the emissions associated with T&Dlosses under scope 2. However, if the reporting companyowns or controls the T&D system but generates (ratherthan p urchases) the electricity transmitted through its
wires, the emissions associated with T&D losses arenot reported under scope 2, as they would already beaccounted for under scope 1. This is the case whengeneration, transmission, and distribution systems arevertically integrated and owned or controlled by thesame company.
Purchased electricity for resale to end-users
Emissions from the generation of purchased electricityfor resale to end-users, for example purchases by autility company, may be reported under scope 3 in thecategory “generation of purchased electricity that issold to end-users.” This reporting category is particu-larly relevant for utility companies that purchasewholesale electricity supplied by independent powerproducers for resale to their customers. Since utilitycompanies and electricity suppliers often exercise
choice over where they purchase electricity, thisprovides them with an important
GHG reduction opportunity (see Seattle City Light case
study in chapter 4). Since scope 3 is optional, companiesthat are unable to track their electricity sales in terms ofend users and non-end users can choose not to reportthese emissions in scope 3. Instead, they can report thetotal emissions associated with purchased electricity thatis sold to both end- and non-end-users under optionalinformation in the category “generation of purchasedelectricity, heat, or steam for re-sale to non-end users.”
Purchased electricity for resale to intermediaries