File Name: 2_ESRS2_SBM1_2006-12-20_VO_NACER2_EU.pdf
Converted on: 2025-03-28 03:20:56
Original Size: 0.17 MB
Chunk Size: 800 tokens with 100 tokens overlap
Table Detection: Enabled
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chunk: 5 of 45
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

economic reality and enhances the comparability of national,
Community and international classifications and, hence, ofnational, Community and international statistics.
2. This Regulation shall apply only to the use of the
classification for statistical purposes.
Article 2
NACE Rev. 2
1. NACE Rev. 2 shall include:
(a) a first level consisting of headings identified by an
alphabetical code (sections);
(b) a second level consisting of headings identified by a two-
digit numerical code (divisions);
(c) a third level consisting of headings identified by a three-
digit numerical code (groups); and
(d) a fourth level consisting of headings identified by a four-
digit numerical code (classes).
2. NACE Rev. 2 is set out in Annex I.
Article 3
Use of NACE Rev. 2
The Commission shall use NACE Rev. 2 for all statistics classified
according to economic activities.
Article 4
National classifications of economic activities
1. Member States' statistics presented according to economic
activities shall be produced using NACE Rev. 2 or a nationalclassification derived therefrom.
2. The national classification may introduce additional head-
ings and levels and a different coding may be used. Each of thelevels, except for the highest, shall consist of either the sameheadings as the corresponding NACE Rev. 2 level or headingsconstituting an exact breakdown thereof.
3. Member States shall forward to the Commission, for its
approval prior to their publication, the drafts defining ormodifying their national classifications. The Commission shallcheck the conformity of these drafts with paragraph 2 withintwo months. The Commission shall transmit the approvednational classification to the other Member States for informa-tion. The Member States' national classifications shall include atable of correspondence between the national classifications andNACE Rev. 2.
4. In the event of incompatibility between certain NACE Rev. 2
headings and the national economic structure, the Commissionmay authorise a Member State to use an aggregation of NACERev. 2 headings in a specific sector.
To obtain such an authorisation, the Member State concerned
must provide the Commission with all the necessary informationto consider its request. The Commission shall decide within
three months.
However, notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, such
an authorisation shall not entitle the Member State concerned tosubdivide the aggregated headings in a way different from NACERev. 2.
5. The Commission shall, together with the Member State
concerned, periodically review the authorisations granted underparagraph 4 to verify whether they remain justified.
Article 5
Commission activities
The Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, shall
ensure the dissemination, maintenance and promotion of NACERev. 2, in particular by:
(a) drafting, updating and publishing explanatory notes for
NACE Rev. 2;
(b) drawing up and publishing guidelines for classifying
statistical units in accordance with NACE Rev. 2;
(c) publishing correspondence tables between NACE Rev. 1.1
and NACE Rev. 2 and between NACE Rev. 2 and NACERev. 1.1; and
(d) working to improve consistency with other social and
economic classifications.
Article 6
Implementing measures
1. The following measures for implementing NACE Rev. 2 shall
be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure referredto in Article 7(2):
(a) decisions required in case of problems arising from
implementation of NACE Rev. 2, including the assignmentof economic activities to specific classes; and
(b) technical measures ensuring a fully coordinated transition
from NACE Rev. 1.1 to NACE Rev. 2, especially with respectto issues related to breaks in time series, including doublereporting and back-casting of time series.
2. Measures relating to NACE Rev. 2 with a view to amending
or supplementing non-essential elements of this Regulation,which are designed for the following purposes, shall be adoptedin accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutinyreferred to in Article 7(3):
(a) to take account of technological or economic develop-
ments; or
(b) to align it with other economic and social classifications.3. Consideration shall be given to the principle that the